- `ParticipantReference.ping` now takes a `ParticipantId` instead of a `PartyId` for the receiver of the ping.
  Moreover, `ParticipantReference.ping` now throws an exception in case of failure.
  Added `ParticipantReference.maybePing` returning an `Option[Duration]` like the previous version of `ping`.
- Added `ParticipantReference.tryToId` to conveniently get the `ParticipantId`.
- Domain now enforces a message size limit and participants comply with it,
  refusing to connect to domains if the local configuration is insufficient
  for the domain settings.
- Stubbed metadata code handling has been replaced by participant local
  set_party_display_name method.
- The party to participant authorization console command
  ```
    authorize_party_to_participant(.., partyId, participantId)
  ```
  now expects you to pass the correct types `PartyId` and `ParticipantId`
  instead of `UniqueIdentifier`s.
- The `signedBy: Fingerprint` argument of all identity authorization console
  commands is now an `Option[Fingerprint]`. If you pass a `None`, the system
  will try to find an appropriate key. If there are several keys, the last
  delegated key will be used.
- Modified the `participant.start` semantics:
  When you start your participant node, it will not connect automatically to
  the domains it was connected before you have shut it down. You have two
  options:
  1) Either manually connect to domains one after the other using
  `participant.connect_domain`.
  2) Or reconnect back to all domains that have the `autoStart = true` flag
  configured using `participant.reconnect_domains`.
- Transfer commands return GRPC style exceptions on illegal arguments
  rather than include failures in error messages.
- Modified command signature of key authorization commands. Before, you had to
  pass `OwnerType` together with a `UniqueIdentifier` to the
  ```
     authorize_owner_to_key_mapping(...)
  ```
  command. Now, you need to pass a proper `KeyOwner` type.
- Modified protocol messages to encode senders and recipients as `string`
  instead of `bytes`.
- The commands `participant.register_domain` and `participant.modify_domain`
  expect a `DomainConnectionConfig` object instead of a list of parameters.
- `as_party_id` has been replaced with a more direct `PartyId.tryFromString`.
- `party_of(participant)` has been removed. Use `participant.tryToId.adminParty` instead.
- adds a sequencer connection string to the domain service to in the future
  allow connections to other types of external sequencers.
- Upgraded to DAML 0.13.56-snapshot.20200318
- Recommending Canton is run on Java 11
