- Unified Canton contract IDs with absolute contract IDs from DAML-LF
- Introduced `RemoteParticipant` and `RemoteDomain` to use the canton console
  conveniently with remotely running domains and participant nodes. In this
  mode, the participant and domain references don't expose any methods that
  only work on in-process instances such as life-cycle or deep state
  inspection commands.
- Replaced `all`, `all_participants` and `all_domains` with different
  structures: Now, there are three main groups: `participants`, `domains` and
  `nodes`, which refers to both node types, participants and domains. All of
  these structures have `.all`, `.local` and `.remote` sub-structures.
  Therefore, a previous `all.start()` now needs to be written as `nodes.local.start()`.
- Removed `domain.alias`, as the alias is something a participant picks for a
  domain and not the other way around.
- `node.status` command wont throw exceptions anymore if node is unreachable.
  Now the returned object indicates whether the status is successful or failure.
  `maybeStatus` was removed.
- Inspection command transaction_search omits rejected transactions.
- Breaking change: Re-organised and re-arranged all console commands according
  to thematic groups. I.e. `participant1.list_connected_domains` is now
  `participant1.domains.list_connected`.
- scenario run no longer works.
- Changed output of `instance.parties.list()` from flat sequence to
  hierarchical output structure  `(partyId, Seq[Participant, Seq[Domains]])`.
- Added synchronisation option to `parties.enable(.., waitForDomains = DomainChoice.All)`
  such that the `enable` command waits until the party is permissioned on
  the given domains.
- Removed domain parameter `checkUsedContractsAreInPast` due to new time model.
- Upgrading to DAML 1.1.0-snapshot.20200430
- Upgraded Ammonite dependency from 1.8.4 to 2.1.1
- Addressed unbounded memory consumption issue in the ACS Commitment Processor
