- Upgraded to DAML 1.3.0-snapshot.20200610
- Added a new key concepts / glossary section to the documentation to quicker explain to users what
  how the system works and what the components do.
- Whenever a participant connects to a domain or receives a DAML package, the participant will create corresponding
  UsePackage contracts. A UsePackage contract is used to inform a participant which packages another participant is able to use.
- By default, a command that triggers creation of UsePackage contracts will only terminate when the creation has succeeded.
  If this fails for some reason, connect or disconnect from a domain to retry.
  You may also directly invoke ParticipantAdministration.packages.wait_until_packages_ready to wait until creation of
  UsePackage contracts has terminated.
- Added a write-up on how to get the most out of contract keys in Canton
- Added a console command to retrieve the domain a transaction was committed on
- Fixed a bug in the contract key implementation that failed (among others) submissions that used ExerciseByKeyCommand
- Sequencer Initialization for all implementations now follow a consistent approach simplifying
  initialization for sequencers in external processes.
- **BREAKING**: Domain Service provides Sequencer Connection Configuration in a configuration object
  rather than serialization into a URL allowing richer configuration options.
- **BREAKING**: the submit and submit_flat console commands do not take an awaitAt parameter any
  more. Instead, if the submission succeeds, these commands by default now automatically determine
  the participants involved in the resulting transaction, and await until the transaction is visible
  to all those participants, reducing the chance of race conditions in console applications. You can
  opt out of the auto synchronization by passing None for the optTimeout parameter.
- **BREAKING**: the acs.find command has been simplified and renamed to acs.await to better reflect
  that it awaits for the contract to become available. Its type signature has changed to improve
  Scala's type inference and remove the need for manual type annotations. The command now takes a
  template companion instead of a template ID. The same change was done to decodeCreated and
  decodeArchived helpers.
- If a command refers to a package that is not known to an informee participant, the command will be rejected.
  Previously, such commands could be accepted, resulting in a ledger fork.
