# Release of Canton 0.17.0

Canton 0.17.0 has been released on July 16, 2020. You can download it from our
[github release section](https://github.com/digital-asset/canton/releases). Please also
consult the [full documentation of this release](https://www.canton.io/docs/0.17.0/user-manual/index.html).

## Summary

This release comes with a set of stability fixes for long running environments and adds the JWT authentication
support to the Ledger API. Also, we've added more commands for package vetting. On top of this,
we have added a first set of experimental commands to provide disaster recovery and data continuity in
almost all circumstances.

## What’s New

### Added JWT Ledger Api Authentication Support

The Ledger Api now exposes the JWT token authentication support of the DAML SDK. Please have a look at
[the documentation](https://www.canton.io/docs/0.17.0/user-manual/usermanual/static_conf.html#jwt-authorization)
on how to enable this in your deployments.

### Documented Known Limitations

We have improved the documentation on our current [known limitations](https://www.canton.io/docs/0.17.0/user-manual/architecture/requirements/requirements.html#known-limitations).
While Canton has reached already a certain level of maturity, there are a few things that could happen if you
start pushing the boundaries.

### Minor Improvements

- `PackageService.listPackages` no longer yields a package state. All returned packages are considered
  to be active. To disable a package, leave the corresponding UsePackage contract.
- Implemented `participant.packages.usages` admin commands to allow for manual creation of UsePackage contracts.
- Introduced configuration option `ParticipantConfig.automaticPackageBroadcast`, which allows for switching off the
  automatic creation of UsePackage contracts.

- **Breaking:** Grpc Sequencer service authentication now supports the mediator and domain identity manager
  (previously only participants were supported). This required adjusting the member serialization making clients on
  prior versions incompatible.

- Upgraded to DAML 1.3.0-snapshot.20200708

### Experimental Features
There are a new set of commands we are just adding to guarantee our ability to recover from almost any kind of
disaster. They are just experimental now and will be featured in an upcoming release.

- `participant.repair.add` admin command to allow for manual creation of contracts such as those exported from other
  participants.
- `participant.repair.change_domain` admin command to allow for manual moving of contracts across domains for
  scenarios such as domain recovery.

### Security and Bugfixes
- Improved the startup behaviour of the ACSCommitmentProcessor such that it can deal with
  larger active contract sets.
- Fixed a memory leak that would have manifested itself after millions of transactions
  (tree map storing one long number per tx).

## Compatibility

| Dependency   | Version                                            |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
| Java Runtime | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.7+10, mixed mode) |
| DAML SDK     | 1.3.0-snapshot.20200708.4686.0.95dfa18e |
| Postgres     | postgres (PostgreSQL) 11.6 (Debian 11.6-1.pgdg90+1) |

## What's Coming

We are currently working on
- Improving stability and long-running behaviour.
- Increase negative test coverage and improve our ability to deal with other outages.
- Improve the documentation.
- Provide more ledger integrations than just SQL.
- Improved logging by shortening long loglines.
- Initial set of capabilities for data continuity, party migration and domain disaster recovery.
