# Release of Canton 0.18.2

Canton 0.18.2 has been released on August 27, 2020. You can download it from our
[github release section](https://github.com/digital-asset/canton/releases/tag/v0.18.2). Please also
consult the [full documentation of this release](https://www.canton.io/docs/0.18.2/user-manual/index.html).

## Summary

This is a minor maintenance release.

## What’s New

### Improved Documentation

We have created an [installation section](https://www.canton.io/docs/0.18.2/user-manual/usermanual/installation.html) in the manual, guiding users how to setup, configure and secure nodes.

Beside this, we also extended the documentation of console commands to include if they are stable, testing, preview or repair commands.

### Minor Improvements
- We have upgraded to DAML version 1.5.0-snapshot.20200825
- We are now distinguishing console command timeouts between bounded and unbounded such that we can properly deal with commands that should finish within a finite time from commands that can potentially run indefinitely.
- We have enabled keep alive for GRPC connections by default, such that long-running commands or connections remain open.

### Preview Features
- We have modified the pruning error when attempting to access pruned state to GRPC NOT_FOUND from OUT_OF_RANGE, as that error can be misinterpreted to go away after retries.

### Security and Bugfixes
- We have fixed a dependency issue in our docker image that caused a warning message about missing TLS ciphers on start-up.

## Compatibility

| Dependency   | Version                                            |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
| Java Runtime | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.8+10, mixed mode) |
| DAML SDK     | 1.5.0-snapshot.20200825.5071.0.d33e130f |
| Postgres     | postgres (PostgreSQL) 11.9 (Debian 11.9-1.pgdg90+1) |

## What's Coming

We are currently working on
- Improving stability and long-running behaviour.
- Increase negative test coverage and improve our ability to deal with other outages.
- Provide more ledger integrations than just SQL.
- Initial set of capabilities for data continuity, party migration and domain disaster recovery.
- Better metrics support
- Cross-domain transactions
- Supporting current contract key uniqueness semantics for single domains in order to provide backwards compatibility.
