# Release of Canton 0.18.1

Canton 0.18.1 has been released on August 18, 2020. You can download it from our [github release section](https://github.com/digital-asset/canton/releases/tag/v0.18.1). Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://www.canton.io/docs/0.18.1/user-manual/index.html).

## Summary

This is a minor maintenance release, where most changes affect preview features.

## What’s New

### Docker Image Dependencies

We have tidied up our docker image dependency. Instead of using `Debian-slim` as their core dependency, we have moved over to `alpine-linux` and instead of packaging the entire `jdk`, we just package the `jre`.

### Cleaner Logging

Before, the log-lines produced by Canton were hard to read due their length. In many cases, the length was caused by excessive information such as long hashes.
Therefore, we have tided up our logging, trying to reduce the log noise. However, some dependencies might still log more than they should.

### Preview Features

- We've continued to develop our repair commands. Now, `repair.purge` allows the manual archiving of contracts to complement the `repair.add` and `repair.change_domain` commands.
- We extended the ACS commitment computations to deal with pruned periods and to recover in case of a crash while pruning.


### Security and Bugfixes
- None

## Compatibility

| Dependency   | Version                                            |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
| Java Runtime | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.8+10, mixed mode) |
| DAML SDK     | 1.4.0-snapshot.20200729.4851.0.224ab362 |
| Postgres     | postgres (PostgreSQL) 11.8 (Debian 11.8-1.pgdg90+1) |

## What's Coming

- Improving stability and long-running behaviour.
- Increase negative test coverage and improve our ability to deal with other outages.
- Improve the documentation.
- Provide more ledger integrations than just SQL.
- Initial set of capabilities for data continuity, party migration and domain disaster recovery.
