# Release of Canton 0.18.0

Canton 0.18.0 has been released on August 06, 2020. You can download it from our
[github release section](https://github.com/digital-asset/canton/releases/tag/v0.18.0). Please also
consult the [full documentation of this release](https://www.canton.io/docs/0.18.0/user-manual/index.html).

## Summary

This release improves the use of TLS on the Ledger and Admin API and comes
with a new set of advanced configuration examples. We also fixed some bugs and
extended the functionality of a few preview features.

## What’s New

### Breaking Change: Sequencer Handshake

Internally, the sequencer clients now perform a handshake with the sequencer server to ensure that they are compatible. This is a small, but breaking internal change, leading to a version increase.

### Improved TLS Support

The TLS support for the Admin API and the Ledger API has been re-worked entirely. Both now support certificate based mutual authentication and we highly encourage you to secure your api endpoints accordingly.
In addition, Canton will enforce at least TLSv1.2 and rely on strong ciphers by default. Please consult the [manual for detailed instructions](https://www.canton.io/docs/0.18.0/user-manual/usermanual/static_conf.html#tls-configuration).

### Improved Advanced Configuration Example

The advanced configuration example has been reworked quite a bit. There is a new set of "configuration mix-ins" that allow you to quickly and easily setup up nodes with Postgres / H2 persistence or authorization.
Please consult the `examples/03-advanced-configuration/README.md` file in the release tar/zip.

### Minor Improvements
- The command `health.status` now has a pretty printed result. Discontinued `health.print_status`.
- Optimized the log file to present much more concise and slicker versions of logged data while still exposing relevant information.
- Sequencer configuration has been further simplified to allow a single `external` definition to support all external Sequencer implementations, as well as feature flags to indicate what support is required from the Domain Node for these Sequencers. The default Sequencer configuration continues to be the embedded Postgres based Sequencer.
- Upgraded to DAML 1.4.0-snapshot.20200729

### Preview Features
- Initial support for adding legal identities using X509 has been added, including some support to create self-signed X509 certificates (will be used for the HTTP/1.1 sequencer API).
- Pruning is now not blocked by periods of missing (or received, but mismatching) ACS commitments. That is, if the participants get back into sync (for example, after repair operations), and their commitments match up at a later point in time, pruning is allowed to proceed at this later point.
- `safe_timestamp` now takes an optional `beforeOrAt` timestamp argument and has been renamed to `find_safe_timestamp`. Use it to find some safe point for pruning that's no later than `beforeOrAt`. Furthermore, now it is guaranteed to return timestamps that fall exactly at reconciliation interval "ticks".

### Security and Bugfixes
- Fixed a pruning bug that prevented participants with DB-configured storage to be pruned more than once.
- Avoids startup failure of Canton demo.
- Race condition in domain connectivity commands has been fixed.

## Compatibility

| Dependency   | Version                                            |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
| Java Runtime | bf5952930446: Pulling fs layer |
| DAML SDK     | 1.4.0-snapshot.20200729.4851.0.224ab362 |
| Postgres     | postgres (PostgreSQL) 11.6 (Debian 11.6-1.pgdg90+1) |

## What's Coming

- Improving stability and long-running behaviour.
- Increase negative test coverage and improve our ability to deal with other outages.
- Improve the documentation.
- Provide more ledger integrations than just SQL.
- Initial set of capabilities for data continuity, party migration and domain disaster recovery.
