# Release of Canton 0.19.1

Canton 0.19.1 has been released on November 13, 2020. You can download the Community edition from our [github release section](https://github.com/digital-asset/canton/releases/tag/v0.19.1). Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://www.canton.io/docs/0.19.1/user-manual/index.html).

## Summary

This release follows quickly our previous release. The community edition now includes a demo docker compose deployment.
The enterprise edition adds now two new interesting preview features: An Ethereum driver and a Fabric driver.

## What’s New

### Docker Compose Based Deployment

In the release artefact, there is a new sub-directory `deployment/docker`. There you can find a docker compose example deployment for your demo projects. Checkout the included README.md.

### Multi-reader multi-writer Ethereum sequencing

**Enterprise only** The enterprise edition now includes a preview Ethereum driver which can run with several Ethereum sequencers, all of which may read and write from the same underlying ledger.
While it should work in theory with other Ethereum variants, we are testing it with Besu. Checkout the example in `examples/e03-ethereum-sequencer`.

### Multi-reader multi-writer Fabric sequencing

**Enterprise only** We also integrated the Hyperledger Fabric driver into the Enterprise bundle.
Though, the driver was already present in the previous release, but now we added a new tutorial for how to use it. You can find it in `examples/e01-fabric-domain`.

### Security and Bugfixes
- There was a bug in the domain router, where informee information was not included in the routing analysis.
- Another bug was fixed that could cause loss of data in the event of a sudden crash.

## Compatibility

| Dependency   | Version                                            |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
| Java Runtime | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.9+11, mixed mode) |
| DAML SDK     | 1.7.0-snapshot.20201103.5565.0.e75d42dd |
| Postgres     | postgres (PostgreSQL) 11.8 (Debian 11.8-1.pgdg90+1) |
| CCF          | 0.14.2 |
| Ethereum     | besu/v20.10.0/linux-x86_64/oracle_openjdk-java-11 |
| Fabric       | 2.2.1 |

## What's Coming

We are currently working on
- High availability for Canton Enterprise.
- Improving stability and long-running behaviour, in particular with pruning.
- Increase negative test coverage and improve our ability to deal with other outages.
- Cross-domain transactions.
