# Release of Canton 0.19.0

Canton 0.19.0 has been released on November 05, 2020. You can download the Community edition from our [github release section](https://github.com/digital-asset/canton/releases/tag/v0.19.0). Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://www.canton.io/docs/0.19.0/user-manual/index.html).

## Summary

This is quite a large release, including many exciting changes such as unique contract keys for single domains, microservices and parallel processi, microservices and parallel processing..

## What’s New

### Community and Enterprise Edition

Canton now comes in two editions: A free Community edition and a commercial Enterprise edition.
The Enterprise edition extends the Community edition with additional features. At the same time, the Community edition is fully functional and wire-compatible with the Enterprise edition.

### Contract Key Uniqueness in Canton

Canton now supports a mode with unique-contract-keys (UCK) mode where contract key uniqueness is enforced.
A domain can now be configured to support UCK, but such domains are not interoperable and composeable with other domains.
If a participant connects to a UCK domain, then it may not connect to any other domain (UCK or non-UCK) during its entire lifetime.
Refer to the [contract key manual](https://www.canton.io/docs/0.19.0/user-manual/usermanual/contract_keys.html) for details.

### Metrics

Previously, Canton supported Kamon based metrics. We have changed the underlying metrics library and adopted
[Dropwizard](https://metrics.dropwizard.io/). The available metrics are documented in our new [Monitoring](https://www.canton.io/docs/dev/user-manual/usermanual/monitoring.html#metrics) section in the manual.

### Preview Support for PCS Manipulation

If something can go wrong, it will go wrong at some point in time. Therefore, we have been adding a new set of commands to a new group named `repair`. These commands are powerful and dangerous, but they can be used to recover a broken system. Scenarios where these commands will become useful are recovering from a broken domain, recovering a compromised participant or domain, migrating parties, data-continuity across major version changes and to migrate from other DAML based ledgers to Canton.
So far, we have implemented the following commands:

- `participant.repair.add` admin command to allow for manual creation of contracts such as those exported from other participants.
- `participant.repair.change_domain` admin command to allow for manual moving of contracts across domains for scenarios such as domain recovery.
- `participant.repair.purge` admin command to allow for manual archival of a contract.

The commands are just the first step here, but they enable the principal capability to implement all of above procedures. The commands right now are turned off by default and are preview at this point in time. We'll document in upcoming releases how exactly they can be used in various scenarios. The first documentation is how to recover participants from a permanently lost or broken domain. Refer to [the manual](https://www.canton.io/docs/stable/user-manual/usermanual/repair.html) for a how-to guide.

### Parallel Transaction Processing

**Enterprise only:** The Enterprise edition now supports parallel transaction processing, leading to a nice performance gain. You don't have to do anything to enable this except using the Enterprise version.

### Microservice Support

**Enterprise only:** Mediators and Sequencers can now be run independently from the main Domain node.
This allows to distribute these processes over multiple hosts and is a preparation step for subsequent high-availability configurations.

### Minor Improvements

- The contract metadata in the protocol messages have been improved to include every stakeholder only once, leading to smaller message sizes.
- The preference "canton.monitoring.size-limit-of-grpc-messages-in-log" has been renamed to "canton.monitoring.log-message-payloads" and has been changed to type boolean.
- The configuration section on Canton parameters has been reorganised. Instead of a single group for a diverse set of parameters, we now feature distinct sections for monitoring and process control.
- The action description and the view participant data have been merged into a single leaf of the Merkle tree for transactions to, leading to smaller message sizes.

### Breaking Protocol Changes

- The Sequencer API has been updated to include send request receipts in the sequenced event stream rather than return synchronously in the response.
  This benefits Sequencer implementations where the order of events is not known until they are observed when read (particularly the blockchain based Ethereum and Fabric Sequencers).
- UTC Timestamps are now stored in databases as longs in microseconds relative to EPOCH to avoid issues with time zones.
- The VIP policy requires only one VIP participant to confirm each transaction view rather than all VIP stakeholders.

### Preview Features

- The "pruning.prune_by_time" command is now called "pruning.prune" and has been modified to accept an offset rather than a timestamp and no longer produces a return result.

### Security and Bugfixes

- There was a bug where transient contracts which were created in a proper subview and were archived in the core of a root view could be double-spent. This has been fixed.
- There was a bug where the continuous pruning query corrupted the contract journal. This is fixed now.
- There is a bug in the Java libraries that can lead to the ForkJoinPool closing threads prematurely and therefore leading to deadlocks. We have added a workaround for this issue.

## Compatibility

| Dependency   | Version                                            |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
| Java Runtime | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.9+11, mixed mode) |
| DAML SDK     | 1.7.0-snapshot.20201103.5565.0.e75d42dd |
| Postgres     | postgres (PostgreSQL) 11.9 (Debian 11.9-1.pgdg90+1) |

## What's Coming

We are currently working on
- Adding Fabric and Ethereum drivers to Canton Enterprise.
- Mediator high availability for Canton Enterprise.
- Improving stability and long-running behaviour, in particular with pruning.
- Increase negative test coverage and improve our ability to deal with other outages.
- Cross-domain transactions.
