# Release of Canton 0.20.0

Canton 0.20.0 has been released on December 03, 2020. You can download the Community edition from our [github release section](https://github.com/digital-asset/canton/releases/tag/v0.20.0). Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://www.canton.io/docs/0.20.0/user-manual/index.html).

## Summary

This release contains a few bug fixes addressing issues arising in long-running systems.
Additionally, we've added and improved a few preview features in Canton Enterprise. First, we've added a cache to the Ethereum driver in order to avoid rehydration from the underlying ledger upon restart and to avoid storing the state in memory. Second, we've added initial high-availability support for the mediator.

## What’s New

### Console Command Change

The signature of the command `$participant.domains.modify` was changed from `(config: DomainConnectionConfig)` to `(alias: DomainAlias, modifier: DomainConnectionConfig => DomainConnectionConfig)`. This makes changing domain connection configurations more convenient.

### Minor Improvements to the Docker Deployment

The Docker deployment in `deployment/docker` now creates log files for troubleshooting and allows to define the exposed ports using environment variables. As a result, you can now run multiple docker-compose based deployments on the same docker host without conflicts.

### Preview Features
- **Enterprise only**: We've added initial support for mediator high availability. The enterprise version now supports adding several Mediators to a Domain and failing over the active Mediator role between them. This is currently just a preview feature and disabled by default. We expect to improve the failover time within the coming weeks.
- **Enterprise only**: The Ethereum driver now caches the state in a separate database in order to avoid rehydration from the ledger on a restart.

### Security and Bugfixes
- **Security**: We have fixed a security related issue in the nonce generation in sequencer authentication challenge-response protocol by using a more appropriate random number generator.
- The domain router did not consider informee information sufficiently when deciding onto which domain to send a multi-domain transaction. As a result, transactions that could otherwise succeed, bounced.
- The processing of identity state updates was not resilient to crashes and could leave the system corrupt upon a crash in the wrong moment.
- The postgres-driver sequencer event log was missing an index, leading to a startup-time that increased linearly with the number of events.
- There was a race conditions in conflict detection that could have lead to rejected transactions and participant crashes in rare cases.

## Compatibility

| Dependency   | Version                                            |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
| Java Runtime | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.9.1+1, mixed mode) |
| DAML SDK     | 1.8.0-snapshot.20201124.5709.0.dabd55d0 |
| Postgres     | postgres (PostgreSQL) 11.10 (Debian 11.10-1.pgdg90+1) |
| CCF          | 0.14.2 |
| Ethereum     | besu/v20.10.0/linux-x86_64/oracle_openjdk-java-11 |
| Fabric       | 2.2.1 |

## What's Coming

We are currently working on
- High availability for Canton Enterprise.
- Improving stability and long-running behaviour, in particular with pruning.
- Increase negative test coverage and improve our ability to deal with other outages.
- Cross-domain transactions.
- Moving the domain service into a distributed setup.
- Adding Oracle support.
