# Release of Canton 0.22.0

Canton 0.22.0 has been released on March 09, 2021. You can download the Community edition from our [github release section](https://github.com/digital-asset/canton/releases/tag/v0.22.0). The Enterprise edition is available on [Artifactory](https://digitalasset.jfrog.io/artifactory/canton-enterprise/canton-enterprise-0.22.0.zip).
Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://www.canton.io/docs/0.22.0/user-manual/index.html).

## Summary

This release comes with a set of improvements, such as faster commitment computation, better error messages and a preview on how to migrate Daml ledger data from any Daml ledger into Canton.

## What’s New

### Incremental ACS commitment computation

**BREAKING**: Canton participants exchange regular commitments to their shared active contract sets (ACSs), with the frequency as specified by the "reconciliation interval" domain parameter.
We have greatly sped up the computation of these commitments and decreased its memory consumption for most usage patterns.
The commitment processor was previously keeping a running snapshot of the ACS in memory, traversing the snapshot whenever computing commitments.
With large ACS sizes (millions of contracts or more), the computation could take minutes or more.
The new computation mechanism is incremental and uses so-called homomorphic hashing.
It can support thousands of contract state changes per second, regardless of the total ACS size.
The memory usage is linear in the count of the different stakeholder sets in the ACS (allocating around 2kb per stakeholder set).

### Better Error Messages for Invalid Configurations

We have improved error messages resulting from invalid Canton configuration files. Before, errors in configurations might have been shown as exceptions. Now, you should be able to observe just the error and its location, providing you with better means to troubleshoot your configuration mistakes.
Additionally, if loading of the configuration from multiple files fails, Canton will write exactly how the config file it attempted to load looked like to a file to help you troubleshoot your problems.

### How To Migrate To Canton or Between Major Canton Versions

We have now documented how to use the "repair commands" to import non-Canton Daml ledgers into Canton and how to preserve your data across major versions updates of Canton. See the [Operational Processes](https://www.canton.io/docs/0.22.0/user-manual/usermanual/operational_processes.html#importing-existing-contracts) section in the user manual for a how-to guide.

### Multiple Metric Outputs

Previously, metrics could only be written to one output source. Now, it is possible to configure several metric reports (e.g. Graphite and CSV) at the same time.
We also added new filters for metrics, such that metric reporters allow for reporting only selected metrics.
There was also a minor breaking change, where we renamed the `file` property of CSV reporter configuration to `directory`.

### Contract IDs and their Seeding

We have changed how Canton creates contract IDs to commit to the Daml LF value contents of the contract rather than their serialization.
Furthermore, you can now control the source of randomness used to seed the contract IDs using the configuration parameter `canton.parameters.participant.contract-id-seeding`.
By default, this is configured to use `strong` seeding. However, in some containerized setups such as continuous integration testing environments, the lack of sufficient entropy might cause the system to fail to startup with a timeout warning in the ledger API server. In such cases, you might want to use `testing-weak` and `testing-static` configurations instead.

### Preview Features

We have added a new pruning command [prune_internal](https://www.canton.io/docs/0.22.0/user-manual/usermanual/console.html#pruning.prune_internally) that allows pruning internal participant ledger data more aggressively than transactions and completions visible via the ledger API.

### Security and Bugfixes

We've fixed a bug where multiple consecutive repair commands for the same contract were failing.

## Compatibility

| Dependency   | Version                                            |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
| Java Runtime | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.8+10, mixed mode) |
| DAML SDK     | 1.11.0-snapshot.20210303.6421.0.145ddaa8 |
| Postgres     | postgres (PostgreSQL) 11.10 (Debian 11.10-1.pgdg90+1) |
| CCF          | 0.14.2 |
| Ethereum     | besu/v20.10.0/linux-x86_64/oracle_openjdk-java-11 |
| Fabric       | 2.2.2 |

## What's Coming

We are currently working on the following topics:

### Canton Enterprise

- High availability for participant and sequencer.
- Moving the domain service into a distributed setup.
- Adding Oracle support.
- Higher throughputs, better vertical scalability and lower resource usage.

### Community and Enterprise

- Improving stability and long-running behaviour, in particular with pruning.
- Increase negative test coverage and improve our ability to deal with other outages.

