# Release of Canton 0.23.0

Canton 0.23.0 has been released on April 15, 2021. You can download the Community edition from our [github release section](https://github.com/digital-asset/canton/releases/tag/v0.23.0). The Enterprise edition is available on [Artifactory](https://digitalasset.jfrog.io/artifactory/canton-enterprise/canton-enterprise-0.23.0.zip).
Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://www.canton.io/docs/0.23.0/user-manual/index.html).

## Summary

This is a new and exciting release with quite a few improvements around production readiness.
We are now following the Daml release schedule and pin ourselves to the public Daml releases, we've added span reporting, various performance and scale improvements, reworked how logging is configured, and we improved our pruning capabilities.

## What’s New

### New Release Cadence

Before, Canton was using Daml snapshot releases as a dependency, releasing independently of the official Daml release. We have now adopted the official Daml connect monthly release cadence (the second Wednesday after the first Monday in a month).
Of course, patch releases for bug fixes will be delivered outside of this release cycle.

### Tracing and Span Reporting

The Canton tracing capabilities have been extended. It is now possible to have the traces being reported to tracing services such as [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io/) or [Zipkin](https://zipkin.io/).
Please consult the [monitoring section of the user manual](https://www.canton.io/docs/0.23.0/user-manual/usermanual/monitoring.html#tracing) on how to enable this feature.

**BREAKING**: As part of this change, we've renamed the configuration parameter `canton.monitoring.trace-context-propagation` to `canton.monitoring.tracing.propagation`.

### Performance Improvements

There were a number of performance and scale improvements. We've added pre-fetching for contracts and contract keys during conflict detection, to avoid database access in a sequential bottleneck.
Related to this, we also introduced cache eviction such that conflict detection does not have to keep all active contracts and assigned keys in memory.
Furthermore, we have optimized the transaction footprint in the synchronization protocol, saving on bandwidth and disk usage.
Finally, we have entirely modified the sequencer database schema, making it ready for high-availability setups and higher performance.

### Logging Improvements

**BREAKING**: We have extended and changed the command line arguments you can use to configure how Canton should be logging.
In particular, you can now flexibly adjust the logging method, level and output format (text or JSON) such that you always get the ideal logging format for the way you run Canton.
As an example, in a container setup, you could use `--log-profile=container` to modify the log-output to leverage the container system's logging capture method.
Please consult the [user manual on logging](https://www.canton.io/docs/0.23.0/user-manual/usermanual/monitoring.html#logging) for insights.

### Minor Improvements
- We have changed the default value of `canton.parameters.participant.party-change-notification.type` to `via-domain`.
  Before, the setting was `eager`. This setting controls when a party should appear on the ledger API party management endpoint as existing.
  The `via-domain` setting will ensure that the party will only appear on the ledger API server once the party is actually permissioned on at least one domain.
  This is a small change, but helps to avoid a race condition in automated testing when a party would appear as permissioned despite the fact that it has been only registered locally on the participant.
- The `participant.parties.enable` command now allows to synchronise on additional participants within the same console session.
  Using the parameter `synchronizeParticipants: Seq`, you can now ensure in your local setups that all mentioned participants learnt about a new party before the call finishes. Again, this helps to avoid race conditions in your (and our) scripts.
- We have added a `maxWaitPeriod` parameter to `utils.retry_until_true(timeout: JDuration, maxWaitPeriod: JDuration)` such that users can now specify a maximum wait period before a condition is retried again.

### Preview Features
- We have now completed sequencer authentication support for external sequencers, and we have also removed the option to disable authentication.
- Participant pruning (an enterprise feature) has now become more efficient and easier to use: We've added the ``pruning.get_offset_by_time`` helper command that helps you identify a pruning offset based on a specified timestamp. The reason for the distinction between pruning by offset or timestamp is that pruning by timestamp is not precise, while pruning by offset is hard to use. Therefore, you can now have both, a convenient method to find the offset, and the precise method to know exactly what you prune.

### Security and Bugfixes
- Fixed a bug which prevented the recovery of a domain that crashed or got turned off in the first few seconds after being started.

## Compatibility

| Dependency   | Version                                            |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
| Java Runtime | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.10+9, mixed mode, sharing) |
| DAML SDK     | 1.12.0 |
| Postgres     | postgres (PostgreSQL) 11.11 (Debian 11.11-1.pgdg90+1) |
| CCF          | 0.14.2 |
| Ethereum     | besu/v20.10.4/linux-x86_64/oracle_openjdk-java-11 |
| Fabric       | 2.2.2 |

## What's Coming

We are currently working on the following topics:

### Canton Enterprise

- High availability for participant and sequencer.
- Moving the domain service into a distributed setup.
- Adding Oracle support.
- Higher throughput, better vertical scalability and lower resource usage.

### Community and Enterprise

- Improving stability and long-running behaviour, in particular with pruning.
- Increase negative test coverage and improve our ability to deal with other outages.
- Supporting large number of participants and parties with privacy.
- Better error codes and fault documentation.
- Support for causality enforcement.
