# Release of Canton 2.0.0

Canton 2.0.0 has been released on March 02, 2022. You can download the Daml Open Source edition from the Daml Connect [Github Release Section](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/releases/tag/v2.0.0). The Enterprise edition is available on [Artifactory](https://digitalasset.jfrog.io/artifactory/canton-enterprise/canton-enterprise-2.0.0.zip).
Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://docs.daml.com/2.0.0/canton/about.html).

## Summary

We are very happy to announce the General Availability (GA) of Canton. This release is carrying the version number 2.0.0, as Canton is now officially part of the Daml solution stack. Also, the Canton documentation has been integrated into the [Daml Documentation](https://docs.daml.com/2.0.0/canton/). And if you peek at our public repository, you will notice that we have [open-sourced the Canton code](https://github.com/digital-asset/canton/).

## What’s New

There have been many changes since 0.27.1 to improve the stability, performance and usability of the product. Please consult the release notes of the release candidates for detailed changes. Therefore, we restrict the list of changes compared to our last release candidate, 1.0.0-RC8:

- The sequencer high-availability configuration has been enhanced. In order to enable HA, you now need to set explicitly `sequencer.high-availability.enabled = yes`. Smart default values have been selected for all other configuration options, so high-availability should work out of the box.

- The advanced configuration example have been updated to better reflect a configuration for an actual production deployment.

- Security around parsing of configuration files has been hardened. We express our gratitude to the finder of this issue.

- If you use Oracle as a database backend, you need to explicitly set the locale of the Java VM running the Canton nodes to `-Duser.language=en -Duser.country=US` and the Oracle database must specify BINARY as default collation and use AL32UTF8 as default character set encoding. Otherwise, Canton nodes will error on start-up. This is a new measure to avoid data corruption and performance degradations.

## Compatibility

Below, we list the versions we use for testing our software.

| Dependency   | Version          |
|--------------|------------------|
| Java Runtime | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.14.1+1, mixed mode, sharing)     |
| Daml         |      |
| Postgres     | postgres (PostgreSQL) 10.20 (Debian 10.20-1.pgdg90+1) |
| Oracle       | ORACLE_VERSION   |
| Ethereum     | besu/v21.10.9/linux-x86_64/openjdk-java-11 |
| Fabric       | 2.2.2   |

## What's Coming

We are currently working on
- ongoing security hardening of the Canton protocol and application.
- providing higher levels of topology management privacy and scalability.
- production ready support of multiple domains per participant.
- improving our documentation with many explicit operational procedures.

