# Release of Canton 2.1.0

Canton 2.1.0 has been released on April 13, 2022. You can download the Daml Open Source edition from the Daml Connect [Github Release Section](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/releases/tag/v2.1.0). The Enterprise edition is available on [Artifactory](https://digitalasset.jfrog.io/artifactory/canton-enterprise/canton-enterprise-2.1.0.zip).
Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://docs.daml.com/2.1.0/canton/about.html).

## Summary

The version 2.1.0 comes with some fixes, but mostly with interesting news for our enterprise customers: We are lifting the preview flag from our Fabric and Besu domain integrations.

## What’s New

### General Availability of Besu Driver

This release includes the general availability release of the Enterprise Besu Driver integration.

- To migrate your existing Canton-on-Besu setup to the new release, please refer to the Besu migration section.
- The Besu driver now offers an automatic-deployment option for the `Sequencer.sol` contract which is available when using a single sequencer. This option makes bootstrapping an Besu sequencer easier and helps to avoid common pitfalls around wrongly configured contract addresses or block heights. The Besu sequencer console command `ethereum.deploy_sequencer_contract` has also been improved. Please see [the documentation](https://www.canton.io/docs/dev/user-manual/usermanual/domains/ethereum.html#deployment-of-the-sequencer-contract) for details.
- Besu now offers a simple, white-list based authorization mechanism as early-access feature. The authorization mechanism allows fine-grained control of the Ethereum accounts that are allowed to interact with the `Sequencer.sol` smart contract. Please see [the documentation](https://www.canton.io/docs/dev/user-manual/usermanual/domains/ethereum.html#authorization) for the full details.
- The demo has been reworked into a simple and advanced scenario. The simple scenario showcases the new automatic-deployment feature for a single sequencer, while the advanced showcases using the improved `ethereum.deploy_sequencer_contract` for multi-sequencer deployment, and the early-access authorization feature. Please see the [reworked documentation](https://www.canton.io/docs/dev/user-manual/usermanual/domains/ethereum.html#the-ethereum-demo) for the full details.

#### Besu Sequencer Migration
This release includes minor changes to the Canton Besu configuration and breaking changes to the ``Sequencer.sol`` smart contract. If you want to use an Besu domain with this release, you will need to redeploy the ``Sequencer.sol`` contract. Please note that with the newly-improved configuration option, it is now easier to redeploy ``Sequencer.sol`` without resetting your Besu network.

#### Configuration Changes

Minor changes to existing Canton Besu configuration files and deployment scripts are needed to use them with this release:
- The Besu sequencer console command `ethereum.deploy_sequencer_contract` received new optional arguments. Therefore, you now need to add parentheses to its invocation. For example, instead of `ethereum_sequencer1.ethereum.deploy_sequencer_contract`, call `ethereum_sequencer1.ethereum.deploy_sequencer_contract()`
- In your Besu node configuration, the RPC HTTP API `TXPOOL` now needs to be enabled ("----rpc-http-api=TXPOOL,...").
- In the Canton configuration, you now also need to specify whether authorization should be enabled and whether the contract uses `type` 'already-deployed' (only option possible before) or 'automatic-deployment'.
  For example, the following configuration was previously-valid and used for the Besu demo:
```hocon
      sequencer {
        type = "ethereum"
        config {
            client-conf {
                client-host="besu-1"
                client-port=8550
            }

            contract {
                address="0x0ffd23af8eebc60b3cfdeed6f814988757237314",
                block-to-read-from=1
            }
         }
      }
```
It should now look as follows:
```hocon
    sequencer {
        type = "ethereum"
        config {
            ethereum-client {
                type="besu"
            }
            client-conf {
                client-host="besu-1"
                client-port=8550
            }
            authorization-enabled=false
            contract {
                type="already-deployed"
                address="0x0ffd23af8eebc60b3cfdeed6f814988757237314",
                block-to-read-from=1
            }
         }
      }
```

### General Availability of Fabric Driver
This release includes the general availability release of the Enterprise Fabric Driver:
- To migrate your existing Canton-on-Fabric setup to the new release, please refer to the Fabric migration section.
- The demo setup has been greatly simplified and the documentation improved. Please see [the documentation](https://docs.daml.com/2.1.0/canton/usermanual/domains/fabric.html).
- Fabric Sequencer pruning capabilities using Fabric's private data collections are available as a preview feature by setting `sequencer.config.use-private-data-collections=true`.

#### Fabric Sequencer migration
This release includes minor changes to the Canton Fabric configuration and breaking changes to the `sequencer.go` chaincode smart contract. If you want to use a Fabric domain with this release, you will need to redeploy the `sequencer.go` contract.

#### Configuration Changes

Minor changes to existing Canton Fabric configuration files and deployment scripts are needed to use them with this release.

For example, the following configuration was previously valid and used for the Fabric demo:
```hocon
sequencer {
  type = "fabric"
  config {
      context-organization-name="org1.example.com"
      organizations=[
        {
          name="org1.example.com"
          admin-user = {
            msp-id=Org1MSP
            hlf-client-user=User1
            msp="<path>/msp"
          }
          hlf-tls-cert-file="<path>/tls/ca.crt"
```
It should now look as follows:
```hocon
sequencer {
  type = "fabric"
  config {
      user = {
        msp-id=Org1MSP
        organization-name="org1.example.com"
        client-user=User1
        private-key-file="<path>/msp/keystore/priv_sk"
        signed-cert-file="<path>/msp/signcerts/User1@org1.example.com-cert.pem"
      }
      organizations=[
        {
          name="org1.example.com"
          tls-cert-file="<path>/tls/ca.crt"
```

### Key Usage and Key Management in Canton

Canton's security is tied to the secure usage of the cryptographic keys involved. While the system operates securely by default, we've added a [new section to our manual](https://docs.daml.com/2.1.0/canton/usermanual/security.html#cryptographic-key-usage) that explains in detail how we use cryptographic keys to secure our protocol.
In addition, we've added new console macros such as ``node.topology.owner_to_key_mappings.rotate_key``. A `macro` combines a series of console commands. In this particular case, it can be used to rotate keys. We've described it all in our new [section on cryptographic key management](https://docs.daml.com/2.1.0/canton/usermanual/security.html#cryptographic-key-management).

### Minor Improvements
- Party allocations via the ledger API will now result in the error `PARTY_ALLOCATION_WITHOUT_CONNECTED_DOMAIN` if the participant is not connected to a domain and party notification is set to `via-domain`. Previously the gRPC request would simply time out and the party became visible when the participant connected to a domain the next time.
- We deprecated the developer logging switch ``canton.monitoring.log-message-payloads`` and added a new [config section instead](https://docs.daml.com/2.1.0/canton/usermanual/monitoring.html#detailed-logging), allowing a user to log much more details about internal data structures. In order to recover the previous logging functionality, please use ``canton.monitoring.logging.api.message-payloads = true`` instead, but beware that this is an internal logging feature subject to change.

#### Enterprise Version Only:
- We added an example Oracle storage configuration mixin to ``examples/03-advanced-configuration/storage``.
- We added a new Oracle storage configuration check testing whether the user is using different users for Ledger API and Canton sync service database, as we have seen users repeatedly running into problems of using the same Oracle schema for the two components.

### Preview Features
- We moved the Docker deployment example to the Enterprise release, as the Docker images of the JSON API and Trigger Service are only available to Enterprise customers.
- We improved auto-transfer to complete outstanding transfers after a restart.
- We implemented [basic DAR removal](https://docs.daml.com/2.1.0/canton/usermanual/console.html#dars-remove). Therefore, Canton now supports, as a preview feature, the removal of DARs and Daml packages. However, the feature is not yet supported by the Ledger API server, and remains therefore as preview.

### Security and Bugfixes
- We have upgraded the Open Telemetry library. This library was causing GRPC reflection to fail on the Ledger API server.
- The open source release artefact now correctly extracts into a directory named "canton-open-source" rather than "canton-community", which was our internal code name for the open-sourced version.

## Compatibility

| Dependency   | Version                                            |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
| Java Runtime | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.14.1+1, mixed mode, sharing) |
| Daml         |  |
| Postgres     | postgres (PostgreSQL) 14.2 (Debian 14.2-1.pgdg110+1) |
| Oracle       | 19.14.0   |
| Ethereum     | besu/v21.10.4/linux-x86_64/openjdk-java-11 |
| Fabric       | 2.2.2 |
| Scala        | 2.13 |

## What's Coming

We are currently working on
- ongoing security hardening of the Canton protocol and application.
- providing higher levels of topology management privacy and scalability.
- production ready support of multiple domains per participant.
- improving our documentation with many explicit operational procedures.
