# Release of Canton 2.10.4

Canton 2.10.4 has been released on March 26, 2026. You can download the Daml Open Source edition from the Daml Connect [Github Release Section](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/releases/tag/v2.10.4). The Enterprise edition is available on [Artifactory](https://digitalasset.jfrog.io/artifactory/canton-enterprise/canton-enterprise-2.10.4.zip).
Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://docs.daml.com/2.10.4/canton/about.html).

## Summary

This maintenance release updates internal dependencies to address security vulnerabilities, fixes a race condition and performance limitations in hard domain migration, and improves the system under faulty network conditions.

We recommend upgrading during your next scheduled maintenance window.

## What’s New

### Domain Migration Performance Improvement

This implementation significantly reducing memory consumption while improving throughput for massive datasets.

The following configuration options allow for fine-tuning, throttling, and concurrency. Particular values are load
and environment specific, and require thorough testing.

This is an example for 38 million active contracts:

  ```
  canton.participants.par {
    storage {
      config.queueSize = 10000
      parameters.max-connections = 20
    }

    parameters {
      batching {
        migration-read-batch-size = 25000
        migration-write-batch-size = 250000
        migration-max-nb-contracts-per-rc = 10000
        repair-internal-batch-size = 2500
        repair-store-parallelism = 10

        acs-commitment-processor-replay-batch-size = 20000
      }
    }
  }
  ```

### Minor Improvements

- Set aggressive TCP keepalive settings on Postgres connections to enable a quick HA failover when a DB connection is stuck. The system-level default of 2h on Linux to trigger a TCP keep-alive results in a failing HA failover for 2h. The new TCP keep-alive setting of 10 seconds to initiate a TCP keep-alive enables quick failover.
- Calls to `SequencerAuthenticationService.Challenge` will now timeout if incomplete after `parameters.timeouts.processing.network` (defaults to 2 mins). This will cause the existing retry mechanism kick in.

### Update dependencies

logback: 1.14.4 -> 1.5.24
jackson: 2.14.3 -> 2.15.4
commons-io: 2.11.0 -> 2.14.0
commons-lang3: 3.12.0 -> 3.18.0
log4j-core: 2.17.0 -> 2.25.3
bouncycastle: 1.70 -> 1.83

This addresses:
- CVE-2024-12798
- CVE-2025-11226
- CVE-2025-52999
- CVE-2023-3894
- CVE-2024-47554
- CVE-2025-48924
- CVE-2021-44832
- CVE-2025-68161
- CVE-2024-29857
- CVE-2024-34447

## Bugfixes

### (26-001, Major): Race condition during hard domain migration initialization

#### Issue Description
The command migrateDomain does not properly synchronize the topology state. As a result, hard migration may fail during migration with BROKEN_DOMAIN_MIGRATION, or it may silently corrupt the contract keys state.

#### Affected Deployments
Participant nodes

#### Affected Versions
< 2.10.4

#### Impact
Hard migration may either fail during the operational procedure, or the contract key state may become corrupt.

#### Symptom
The migrateDomain may fail either with BROKEN_DOMAIN_MIGRATION.

If the migration succeeded, subsequent updates to contracts with the given keys would fail with "Unknown keys are to be reassigned".

#### Workaround
A potential, not validated workaround would be to add another topology transaction to the source domain before attempting the migration.

#### Likeliness
Race condition that is only present in 1% of the cases, if the participant nodes topology state prior to migration is exactly a multiple of 100.

#### Recommendation
Upgrade to 2.10.4 before attempting a domain migration.

## Compatibility

The following Canton protocol versions are supported:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Canton protocol versions   | 5, 7          |

Canton has been tested against the following versions of its dependencies:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Java Runtime               | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM Zulu11.72+19-CA (build 11.0.23+9-LTS, mixed mode)               |
| Postgres                   | Recommended: PostgreSQL 12.22 (Debian 12.22-1.pgdg120+1) – Also tested: PostgreSQL 11.16 (Debian 11.16-1.pgdg90+1), PostgreSQL 13.23 (Debian 13.23-1.pgdg13+1), PostgreSQL 14.22 (Debian 14.22-1.pgdg13+1), PostgreSQL 15.17 (Debian 15.17-1.pgdg13+1)           |
| Oracle                     | 19.20.0             |

