# Release of Canton 2.2.0

Canton 2.2.0 has been released on Mai 16, 2022. You can download the Daml Open Source edition from the Daml Connect [Github Release Section](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/releases/tag/v2.2.0). The Enterprise edition is available on [Artifactory](https://digitalasset.jfrog.io/artifactory/canton-enterprise/canton-enterprise-2.2.0.zip).
Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://docs.daml.com/2.2.0/canton/about.html).

## Summary

This Canton release comes with a few minor changes and bug fixes.

## What’s New

### Minor Improvements
- We've improved the error message of the command `mySequencer.pruning.prune_at`. It will now fail with GRPC status FAILED_PRECONDITION, if the given timestamp is unsafe to prune. (Previous value: INVALID_ARGUMENT)
- If the participant is overloaded, it will log a degradation warning. More precisely, if all incoming commands have been rejected during `myParticipant.parameters.warnIfOverloadedFor` (default: 20 seconds) due to PARTICIPANT_BACKPRESSURE, the participant will log a PARTICIPANT_OVERLOADED warning.
- The current `<participant>.domains.connect_ha` command has been deprecated. We've added another one with a slightly different argument list in order to support backwards compatible future extensions. Users are encouraged to migrate to the new version of the command, but the previous command will remain available until the next major release.
- We've made changes to participant topology dispatching in order to support larger number of parties on a participant node.

### Besu Driver
- We've improved the error message emitted due to misconfigurations of the Besu driver in order to provide better and clearer feedback to the user.
- Additionally, we've improved the Besu driver configuration used in our Ethereum example.

### Fabric Sequencer
- We've renamed the `query-wait-time` and `invoke-wait-time` in Fabric configuration to `query-wait-time-millis` and `invoke-wait-time-millis` respectively. These are expert settings and shouldn't be changed normally.
- We've added a `start-block-height` to the chaincode config of the Fabric driver. With this config option, one can define a starting block height to starting reading from, where the chaincode has been deployed to the ledger. This is useful in cases when the chaincode is deployed long after the ledger has been created and there are many blocks prior to it, which we don't need to process.

### Security and Bugfixes
- We've fixed a bug in the participant that rarely causes the participant to refuse to reconnect to a domain and wrongly report that a ledger fork has happened: `ForkHappened`. This has also been fixed in 2.1.1 and in the (yet to be released) 2.0.1.

## Compatibility

| Dependency   | Version                                                               |
| ------------ |-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Java Runtime | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.15+10, mixed mode, sharing) |
| Daml         | 2.2.0                                                                 |
| Postgres     | postgres (PostgreSQL) 14.2 (Debian 14.2-1.pgdg110+1)                  |
| Oracle       | 19.14.0                                                               |
| CCF          | 0.14.2                                                                |
| Ethereum     | besu/v21.10.9/linux-x86_64/openjdk-java-11                            |
| Fabric       | 2.2.2                                                                 |
| Scala        | 2.13                                                                  |

## What's Coming

We are currently working on
- improved participant onboarding using allow-lists.
- ongoing security hardening of the Canton protocol and application.
- providing higher levels of topology management privacy and scalability.
- production ready support of multiple domains per participant.
- improving our documentation with many explicit operational procedures.
