# Release of Canton 2.3.6

Canton 2.3.6 has been released on September 27, 2022. You can download the Daml Open Source edition from the Daml Connect [Github Release Section](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/releases/tag/v2.3.6). The Enterprise edition is available on [Artifactory](https://digitalasset.jfrog.io/artifactory/canton-enterprise/canton-enterprise-2.3.6.zip).
Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://docs.daml.com/2.3.6/canton/about.html).

## Summary
This release fixes a set of issues. Customers on the 2.3 release line are advised to upgrade to this version.
Please note that release 2.3.5 has been skipped.

## What’s New

### Minor Improvements
- New repair commands `repair.identity.download` and `repair.identity.upload` for downloading and uploading the identity and keys of a node. They can be used to preserve a node's identity and keys when its storage is reset.
- Improved resilience of ethereum sequencer to network failures & overloaded Ethereum clients returning invalid data.

### Security and Bugfixes
- Fixed a memory leak in the mediator that would lead to JVM degradation over time.
- Fixed an error that could lead to rare crashes when restarting an Ethereum sequencer node and zombie queries on associated Besu nodes.
- Fixed an issue where multiple mediator response messages would confuse transaction processing.

## Compatibility

The following Canton protocol and Ethereum sequencer contract versions are supported:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Canton protocol versions   | 2.0.0, 3.0.0          |
| Ethereum contract versions | 1.0.0, 1.0.1 |

Canton has been tested against the following versions of its dependencies:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Java Runtime               | OpenJDK Runtime Environment 18.9 (build 11.0.16+8)               |
| Postgres                   | postgres (PostgreSQL) 14.5 (Debian 14.5-1.pgdg110+1)           |
| Oracle                     | 19.15.0             |
| Besu                       | besu/v21.10.9/linux-x86_64/openjdk-java-11               |
| Fabric                     | 2.2.2             |



