# Release of Canton 2.3.13

Canton 2.3.13 has been released on June 15, 2023. You can download the Daml Open Source edition from the Daml Connect [Github Release Section](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/releases/tag/v2.3.13). The Enterprise edition is available on [Artifactory](https://digitalasset.jfrog.io/artifactory/canton-enterprise/canton-enterprise-2.3.13.zip).
Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://docs.daml.com/2.3.13/canton/about.html).

## Summary

This is a bugfix only release of Canton with two improvements in the crash recovery of a participant node.

## What’s New

### Bugfixes

#### Crash recovery bug in request counter allocator for repair requests

Description
: When using the repair service of a participant, the participant may fail to reconnect to the domains affected by the repairs.

Affected deployments
: All deployments

Affected versions
: All currently released enterprise versions of Canton.

Impact
: The participant cannot connect to the affected domain any more.

Symptom
: The participant log file contains an `ERROR` message of the form
`An internal error has occurred. java.lang.IllegalArgumentException: Cannot skip request counter ... other than the next request counter ...`

Workaround
: Upgrading to a Canton version with the released bug fix should resolve the problem.

Likelihood of the bug
: The bug can occur only if the repair service is used on a participant.
The repair service is internally used by the party migration console macros, for example.

Recommendation
: Upgrade the participant to a Canton version with the bug fix and restart the node.

#### Crash recovery bug in ACS commitment processing

Description
: A participant may fail to reconnect to a domain and the reconnect attempt seems stuck.

Affected deployments
: All deployments

Affected versions
:  All currently released enterprise versions of Canton.

Impact
: The participant cannot connect to a domain any more.

Symptom
: No error is logged in the participants log file, but the reconnect command will appear to be stuck.

Workaround
: Upgrading to a Canton version with the released bug fix should resolve the problem.

Likelihood of the bug
: The bug occurs only for a particular order of events that are processed during the reconnect of a participant to a domain.
Not all participant nodes may be affected for the same domain.

Recommendation
: Upgrade the participant to a Canton version with the bug fix and restart the node.

## Compatibility

The following Canton protocol and Ethereum sequencer contract versions are supported:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Canton protocol versions   | 2.0.0, 3.0.0          |
| Ethereum contract versions | 1.0.0, 1.0.1 |

Canton has been tested against the following versions of its dependencies:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Java Runtime               | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.16+8, mixed mode, sharing)               |
| Postgres                   | postgres (PostgreSQL) 14.8 (Debian 14.8-1.pgdg120+1)           |
| Oracle                     | 19.15.0             |
| Besu                       | besu/v21.10.9/linux-x86_64/openjdk-java-11               |
| Fabric                     | 2.2.2             |

