# Release of Canton 2.3.14

Canton 2.3.14 has been released on July 12, 2023. You can download the Daml Open Source edition from the Daml Connect [Github Release Section](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/releases/tag/v2.3.14). The Enterprise edition is available on [Artifactory](https://digitalasset.jfrog.io/artifactory/canton-enterprise/canton-enterprise-2.3.14.zip).
Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://docs.daml.com/2.3.14/canton/about.html).

## Summary

This is a maintenance release of Canton. We recommend users to upgrade to this version in order
to ensure that the repair service remains functional for disaster recovery.

## Bugfixes

### Another instance of the bug Crash recovery bug in request counter allocator for repair requests
We fixed another instance of the bug "Crash recovery bug in request counter allocator for repair requests"
mentioned in the release notes for 2.3.13. The same description applies.

### Fixed a bug preventing creation of transactions with a large number of sibling nodes.

Description
: When submitting a transaction with a large number of sibling nodes, Canton would crash with a stack overflow exception.

Affected deployments
: All deployments

Affected versions
: Canton < 2.3.14, 2.4, 2.5 (all patched), not present in 2.6

Impact
: The participant will crash upon attempting to create a transaction with a large number of sibling nodes.

Symptom
: The JVM process will crash with `java.lang.StackOverflowError: null`

Workaround
: Increase the stack-size of all participant nodes using the JVM parameter `-Xss4m`.

Likelihood of the bug
: The bug occurs deterministically if a large transaction with many sibling nodes is submitted.

Recommendation
: Upgrade the participants to a Canton version with the bug fix and restart the node.

## Compatibility

The following Canton protocol and Ethereum sequencer contract versions are supported:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Canton protocol versions   | 2.0.0, 3.0.0          |
| Ethereum contract versions | 1.0.0, 1.0.1 |

Canton has been tested against the following versions of its dependencies:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Java Runtime               | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.16+8, mixed mode, sharing)               |
| Postgres                   | postgres (PostgreSQL) 14.8 (Debian 14.8-1.pgdg120+1)           |
| Oracle                     | 19.15.0             |
| Besu                       | besu/v21.10.9/linux-x86_64/openjdk-java-11               |
| Fabric                     | 2.2.2             |

