# Release of Canton 2.3.15

Canton 2.3.15 has been released on July 29, 2023. You can download the Daml Open Source edition from the Daml Connect [Github Release Section](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/releases/tag/v2.3.15). The Enterprise edition is available on [Artifactory](https://digitalasset.jfrog.io/artifactory/canton-enterprise/canton-enterprise-2.3.15.zip).
Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://docs.daml.com/2.3.15/canton/about.html).

## Summary

This is a maintenance release of Canton. We recommend users to upgrade to this version in order
to ensure that a participant node does not disconnect from a domain unexpectedly.

## Bugfixes

### Fixed a bug that disconnects a participant from a domain unexpectedly

Description
: When a participant disconnects and reconnects to a domain without a restart and then experiences a database error for one particular database operation it will disconnect the participant from the domain unexpectedly.

Affected deployments
: All deployments

Affected versions
: Canton v2.1 and later.

Impact
: The participant will disconnect from the domain unexpectedly.

Symptom
: The participant will disconnect with an error `SYNC_SERVICE_DOMAIN_DISCONNECTED` due to an `ApplicationHandlerException`.

Workaround
: Restart the participant node.

Likelihood of the bug
: The bug occurs only when a participant disconnects and reconnects to a domain without restart and hits a database error for one particular database operation.

Recommendation
: Upgrade the participants to a Canton version with the bug fix and restart the node.

## Compatibility

The following Canton protocol and Ethereum sequencer contract versions are supported:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Canton protocol versions   | 2.0.0, 3.0.0          |
| Ethereum contract versions | 1.0.0, 1.0.1 |

Canton has been tested against the following versions of its dependencies:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Java Runtime               | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.16+8, mixed mode, sharing)               |
| Postgres                   | postgres (PostgreSQL) 14.8 (Debian 14.8-1.pgdg120+1)           |
| Oracle                     | 19.15.0             |
| Besu                       | besu/v21.10.9/linux-x86_64/openjdk-java-11               |
| Fabric                     | 2.2.2             |

