# Release of Canton 2.3.17

Canton 2.3.17 has been released on October 23, 2023. You can download the Daml Open Source edition from the Daml Connect [Github Release Section](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/releases/tag/v2.3.17). The Enterprise edition is available on [Artifactory](https://digitalasset.jfrog.io/artifactory/canton-enterprise/canton-enterprise-2.3.17.zip).
Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://docs.daml.com/2.3.17/canton/about.html).

## Summary

This is a maintenance release of Canton. We recommend users who uses Besu to upgrade to this version to ensure
that sequencer drivers properly report their Health Status that allows a HA environment to fail over.

## Bugfixes

### Fixed a bug in the health status of Besu sequencer driver
Description
: when a sequencer driver is connected to a Besu node, in case the Besu node is 
unable to respond within 15s the sequencer is still considered healthy as long as a connection to the node can be made.

Affected deployments
: Besu deployments.

Affected versions
: All canton versions supporting Besu.

Impact
: The participant will be unable to change to a healthy sequencer (in a multi sequencer setup) and will be stuck until Besu problem is resolved.

Workaround
: Restarting the Besu node.

Likelihood of the bug
: The bug occurs very rarely and only when the Besu node is having unusual problems or under heavy load.

## Compatibility

The following Canton protocol and Ethereum sequencer contract versions are supported:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Canton protocol versions   | 2.0.0, 3.0.0          |
| Ethereum contract versions | 1.0.0, 1.0.1 |

Canton has been tested against the following versions of its dependencies:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Java Runtime               | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.16+8, mixed mode, sharing)               |
| Postgres                   | postgres (PostgreSQL) 14.9 (Debian 14.9-1.pgdg120+1)           |
| Oracle                     | 19.15.0             |
| Besu                       | besu/v21.10.9/linux-x86_64/openjdk-java-11               |
| Fabric                     | 2.2.2             |

