# Release of Canton 2.4.2

Canton 2.4.2 has been released on December 07, 2022. You can download the Daml Open Source edition from the Daml Connect [Github Release Section](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/releases/tag/v2.4.2). The Enterprise edition is available on [Artifactory](https://digitalasset.jfrog.io/artifactory/canton-enterprise/canton-enterprise-2.4.2.zip).
Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://docs.daml.com/2.4.2/canton/about.html).

## Summary

This release comes with a set of bug fixes. Users are advised to upgrade to it.

## What’s New

### Security and Bugfixes
- We fixed a bug that would incorrectly set the ledger API DB schema when using the `currentSchema` property in the participant database config.
- We fixed an error that could lead to rare crashes when restarting an Ethereum sequencer node and zombie queries on associated Besu nodes.
- We fixed an error where the termination of one Ledger API connection could impact others too.
- We have fixed an issue in the Fabric sequencer that leads to availability issues when Fabric peers were partially down.
- We fixed a crash recovery after initialization issue with external sequencers that broke the sequencer nodes if they were restarted immediately after initialization.
- We fixed a clean shutdown issue that sometimes caused a sequencer to hang during shutdown.
- We fixed an issue in the database sequencer where sequencer failover would not succeed if the failover was triggered by a sequencer database outage.
- We fixed a performance degradation of the database sequencer Oracle driver when being run in a high-availability, microservice configuration.

## Compatibility

The following Canton protocol and Ethereum sequencer contract versions are supported:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Canton protocol versions   | 2, 3          |
| Ethereum contract versions | 1.0.0, 1.0.1 |

Canton has been tested against the following versions of its dependencies:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Java Runtime               | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.16+8, mixed mode, sharing)               |
| Postgres                   | postgres (PostgreSQL) 14.6 (Debian 14.6-1.pgdg110+1)           |
| Oracle                     | 19.15.0             |
| Besu                       | besu/v21.10.9/linux-x86_64/openjdk-java-11               |
| Fabric                     | 2.2.2             |

