
# Release of Canton 2.6.1

Canton 2.6.1 has been released on March 31, 2023. You can download the Daml Open Source edition from the Daml Connect [Github Release Section](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/releases/tag/v2.6.1). The Enterprise edition is available on [Artifactory](https://digitalasset.jfrog.io/artifactory/canton-enterprise/canton-enterprise-2.6.1.zip).
Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://docs.daml.com/2.6.1/canton/about.html).

## Summary

This is a maintenance release, fixing a performance degradation. Production systems of 2.6.0 are advised to consume the upgrade.

## What’s New

### Activation of unsupported features
In order to activate unsupported features, you now need to explicitly enable `dev-version-support` on the domain (in
addition to the non-standard config flag). More information can be found in the
[documentation](https://docs.daml.com/2.6.1/canton/usermanual/FAQ.html#how-do-i-enable-unsupported-features).

### Security and Bugfixes
- Fixed a performance degradation in the mediator and database sequencer that leads to slow performance degradations after running a process for days.
- Fixed an issue in HA participants under high load that may cause a passive replica to not serve transactions when becoming active again.
- Fixed the database sequencer `max-event-age` metric not to report excessively old event ages.
- Fixed an issue in HA database sequencer setups with automatic scheduled pruning when a sequencer loses
  write-access to "exclusive storage". Now another sequencer takes over automatic pruning.
- Fixed a startup issue where a domain manager / mediator sequencer connection couldn't be changed without starting up cleanly.
- Fixed an issue where high available sequencer readers were creating higher database load than necessary.

## Compatibility

The following Canton protocol and Ethereum sequencer contract versions are supported:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Canton protocol versions   | 3, 4          |
| Ethereum contract versions | 1.0.0, 1.0.1 |

Canton has been tested against the following versions of its dependencies:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Java Runtime               | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM Zulu11.62+17-CA (build 11.0.18+10-LTS, mixed mode)               |
| Postgres                   | postgres (PostgreSQL) 14.7 (Debian 14.7-1.pgdg110+1)           |
| Oracle                     | 19.15.0             |
| Besu                       | besu/v22.1.3/linux-x86_64/openjdk-java-11               |
| Fabric                     | 2.2.2             |

