# Release of Canton 2.7.1

Canton 2.7.1 has been released on August 24, 2023. You can download the Daml Open Source edition from the Daml Connect [Github Release Section](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/releases/tag/v2.7.1). The Enterprise edition is available on [Artifactory](https://digitalasset.jfrog.io/artifactory/canton-enterprise/canton-enterprise-2.7.1.zip).
Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://docs.daml.com/2.7.1/canton/about.html).

## Summary

This is a maintenance release of Canton, addressing a few issues.

## What’s New

## Deprecations

- `SequencerConnection.addConnection` is deprecated. Use `SequencerConnection.addEndpoints` instead.

## Packaging

We have reverted the change from 2.7.0 that introduced the distribution of a separate `bcprov-jdk15on-1.70.jar` along the canton jar in the `lib` folder.
If you use the Oracle JRE, beware that you will now need to explicitly add the [bouncycastle](https://www.bouncycastle.org/java.html) library to the classpath when running canton.


## Security and Bugfixes

### Fixed `rotate_node_keys` command when it is used to rotate keys of sequencer(s) and mediator(s)

#### Background
Canton has a series of console commands to rotate keys, in particular, `rotate_node_keys` that is used
to rotate de keys of a node.

#### Description
When we use the console macro `rotate_node_keys` to rotate the keys of a sequencer or mediator the keys are
actually not rotated because we are: (1) looking at the wrong topology management store and (2) not using the
associated domainManager to actually rotate the keys.

#### Effected protocol versions
Canton v2.6 and later.

#### Impact
The rotation of the keys for a sequencer or mediator will not succeed.

#### Workaround
Select the correct topology management `Active` store (the one from the domainManager) to look for keys to rotate and
call the `rotate_key` console command with the domainManager reference.

#### Likeliness
Everytime we use `rotate_node_keys` to rotate the keys of sequencer(s) or mediator(s).

#### Recommendation
Upgrade the Canton console that you use to administrate the domain, in particular the sequencer and mediator,
to a Canton version with the bug fix.

## Compatibility

The following Canton protocol versions are supported:

| Dependency                 | Version  |
|----------------------------|----------|
| Canton protocol versions   | 3, 4, 5  |

Canton has been tested against the following versions of its dependencies:

| Dependency                 | Version                                                                     |
|----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Java Runtime               | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM Zulu11.62+17-CA (build 11.0.18+10-LTS, mixed mode) |
| Postgres                   | postgres (PostgreSQL) 14.9 (Debian 14.9-1.pgdg120+1)                        |
| Oracle                     | 19.18.0                                                                     |
