# Release of Canton 2.7.0

Canton 2.7.0 has been released on August 11, 2023. You can download the Daml Open Source edition from the Daml Connect [Github Release Section](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/releases/tag/v2.7.0). The Enterprise edition is available on [Artifactory](https://digitalasset.jfrog.io/artifactory/canton-enterprise/canton-enterprise-2.7.0.zip).
Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://docs.daml.com/2.7.0/canton/about.html).

## Summary

We are excited to announce Canton 2.7 with some major security and operability improvements.

In particular, we've added
- protocol version 5 with additional security validations such that malicious participants cannot tamper with the integrity of the distributed ledger.
- support for AWS and GCP key management systems
- extended support for distributed tracing and cleaner logging
- identity provider (IDP) administration enhancements
- a great new early access feature: explicit disclosure

On an important note, we've also separated out the Besu and Fabric drivers from the main Canton jar.

Please consult the [upgrading instructions](https://docs.daml.com/canton/usermanual/upgrading.html#upgrade-to-release-2-7) on how to upgrade a 2.6 deployment.

## What’s New

### Additional Security Validations
#### Background
Canton is designed for applications where there are low trust assumptions between organizations. The end-goal is that a Canton network can be deployed across mutually distrusting organizations and avoid reconciliation so that the business activity can be automated. With this release, we have reached a new milestone in adding and improving security checks.

#### Specific Changes
When a malicious transaction request from a rogue participant node(s) occurs it will now be rejected so a malicious request cannot compromise integrity of the virtual shared ledger. With this release, users can start to deploy Canton networks across mutually distrusting organizations.

A limitation that is planned to be removed in a future release is that, even though a malicious request will not succeed, it is possible that it may halt the execution of a participant node.

#### Impact and Migration

The new security enhancements require a domain to run protocol version 5 or higher, which is the new stable default version. So, the [domain needs to therefore be upgraded to protocol version 5](https://docs.daml.com/2.7.0/canton/usermanual/upgrading.html#change-the-canton-protocol-version).

### Additional Key Management Support

#### GCP KMS
By default, Canton nodes will store their private keys in the database. For higher security, a key management system can be used to manage the keys in more secure places. Version 2.5 introduced support for AWS KMS with envelope encryption, used to encrypt the Canton keys at rest. This is an early access feature.

#### Full KMS Delegation

This version now introduces additionally GCP KMS support and the ability to delegate all encryption and signing to the KMS system. Please [consult the documentation](https://docs.daml.com/2.7.0/canton/usermanual/security.html#key-management-service-setup) for further information.

#### KMS Logging

In order to improve the auditability of the KMS activity, all external calls to the KMS are now logged.
The logs will be written to the main log file, but can be directed into a separate file using the command line argument `--kms-log-file-name`.

#### Impact and Migration

This is a purely additive change.

### Distributed Tracing and Logging Enhancements

#### Background
Distributed tracing is a technique used for troubleshooting performance issues in a microservices environment like Daml Enterprise. Canton does support distributed tracing but the support on the Ledger API was only partial, limited to the command submission service and not surfaced on the ledger updates processed within the Ledger API. There have been several enhancements in this release, such as the client application being able to pass in their trace and span ID on all Ledger API commands, so that the distributed trace is contiguous.

#### Specific Changes

The logging context has been unified across all Canton components so the causal chain of traces is no longer broken. The most relevant changes are:
  - Clients using the command service are able to start a span in their application and pass the trace context (e.g., trace ID and span ID) on to Canton. This did already work for the submission service.
  - The trace ID is now visible for the ledger updates processed with the Ledger API.
  - New spans have been added for the initial command evaluation, for the command tracking and for the indexer.
  - Spans within the ApiSubmissionService, CantonSyncService and MessageDispatcher cover almost the entirety of a daml command processing by Canton thus giving a very fair representation of what is happening in the system at any given point.

As part of the cleanup, we've unified the logging backends, such that now all log messages of the Ledger API server component appear uniform with the rest and express the trace ID.

Please note that the external JSON API service does not support OpenTelemetry distributed tracing.
Therefore, this feature can only be used when using the gRPC API directly.

#### Impact and Migration

This is a purely additive change.

### Identity Provider (IDP) Administration Enhancements

The identity provider config service makes it possible for participant node administrators to set up and manage additional identity providers at runtime. This allows using access tokens from identity providers unknown at deployment time. When an identity provider is configured, independent IDP administrators can manage their own set of parties and users.

#### Background

In order to secure internal access to the Ledger API, users can be configured and granted permission
to act or read on behalf of certain parties. [Users authenticate to the Ledger API using JWT tokens](https://docs.daml.com/2.7.0/app-dev/authorization.html#user-access-tokens) and valid authorization
services can be [configured using the respective configuration settings](https://docs.daml.com/2.7.0/canton/usermanual/apis.html#jwt-authorization).

If not all users are managed by a single authorization service, then a user can be assigned to so called identity providers (IDP) by [setting the appropriate identityProvider field](https://docs.daml.com/2.7.0/canton/usermanual/identity_management.html#user-identity-management) when generating the user

#### Specific Changes

This version now extends the support and allows
- to re-assign the IDP of a [user](https://docs.daml.com/2.7.0/app-dev/grpc/proto-docs.html#updateuseridentityproviderrequest) and a [party](https://docs.daml.com/2.7.0/app-dev/grpc/proto-docs.html#updatepartyidentityproviderrequest)
- to imply IDPs from tokens when processing [user management](https://docs.daml.com/2.7.0/app-dev/grpc/proto-docs.html#usermanagementservice) and [party management](https://docs.daml.com/2.7.0/app-dev/grpc/proto-docs.html#partymanagementservice) calls that take `identity_provider_id` argument
- to specify [the expected audience field](https://docs.daml.com/2.7.0/app-dev/grpc/proto-docs.html#com-daml-ledger-api-v1-admin-identityproviderconfig) that should appear in the JWT tokens submitted by clients of the ledger api

#### Impact and Migration

This is a purely additive change.

### Early Access: Explicit Disclosure
#### Background
Contract read delegation allows a party to acquire read rights during command submission over a contract of which it is neither a stakeholder nor an informee. This allows to share contract data out of band and then reuse this data within a command submission to the ledger, enabling various uses such as onboarding / invitation contracts and sharing of reference data.

As a streamlined mechanism to enable read delegation, the explicit contract disclosure is introduced as an early-access feature for Canton 2.7.0, where Daml users can easily delegate contract read rights to non-stakeholders using off-ledger data distribution.

For details, check the [detailed documentation](https://docs.daml.com/2.7.0/app-dev/explicit-contract-disclosure.html).

#### Specific Changes

A new configuration key `canton.participants.<participant-name>.ledger-api.explicit-disclosure-unsafe` allows enabling the use of disclosed contracts in command submission.

The Ledger API Command Protobuf schema is extended with an additional field [disclosed_contracts](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/blob/main/ledger-api/grpc-definitions/com/daml/ledger/api/v1/commands.proto#L127) that allows users to attach explicitly disclosed contracts to command submissions.
The Ledger API Protobuf schema for CreatedEvent is extended with an additional field [metadata](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/blob/main/ledger-api/grpc-definitions/com/daml/ledger/api/v1/event.proto#L119) that allows constructing disclosed contract payloads to be used in command submissions.

#### Impact and Migration

There is no impact to backwards compatibility for existing applications. Users wishing to use explicit disclosure can do so on participants running at least protocol version 4 for all contracts created starting with protocol version 4. Please beware that this is an early access feature so it may evolve based on user feedback. The Api and usage is not yet stable and most of the existing Daml tools have not yet been extended to support the feature.

### Breaking: Fabric and Besu Drivers now reside in Canton-Drivers

Canton Enterprise supports additionally to the Postgres and Oracle drivers, running domains on top of Besu and Fabric. This support was included within the single Canton Enterprise jar. However, due to the different dependencies used by the various SDKs, actual symbol conflicts arise which make it hard to independently upgrade third party libraries whenever new versions are available.

We have therefore moved the drivers into a separate jar. As a result, sequencer node deployments that use Fabric or Besu need to use a [new release package](https://digitalasset.jfrog.io/artifactory/canton-drivers/com/digitalasset/canton/drivers/canton-drivers/) which packages the drivers together with Canton.
Please [consult the installation documentation](https://docs.daml.com/2.7.0/canton/usermanual/domains/fabric.html) for further information.

## Minor Changes
#### Console Commands
##### New Remote Console Commands
The admin commands `repair.migrate_domain` and `pruning.find_safe_offset` are now also supported on a remote participant setup.

##### Different error code returned in Rotate Wrapper Key Command
BREAKING: The command `keys.secret.rotate_wrapper_key`, which allows for the rotation of the KMS wrapper key that is being used to encrypt Canton's private keys at rest, now returns a different error code. An
`INVALID_WRAPPER_KEY_ID` error has been replaced by an `INVALID_KMS_KEY_ID` error.

##### Repair Commands
BREAKING: The command `repair.download` which allows downloading active contracts for a set of parties has now a new format. Therefore, the command `repair.acs.load_from_file` is not able to load generated using a previous version of Canton.

This new format is simpler to parse and to validate.

##### Usage of PartyId in Ledger API Console Commands
The commands under ``ledger_api.users`` and ``ledger_api.parties``
have been switched to use ``PartyId`` consistently instead of
``LfPartyId`` to reduce the need to convert between different party id
types. However, ``LfPartyId`` can still be used in a backwards compatible manner.

##### Ledger API Console Commands for Identity Provider Config
Identity Provider Config can now be manipulated through Canton console using commands under ``ledger_api.identity_provider_config``. It is now possible to ``create``, ``delete``, ``update``, ``list`` and ``get`` details of Identity Provider Configs defined on a given participant. It is also possible to assign users and parties to IDPs on creation by specifying ``identityProviderId`` inside a ``ledger_api.users.create`` and ``ledger_api.parties.allocate`` calls respectively. These assignments can be altered by using ``ledger_api.users.update_idp`` and ``ledger_api.parties.update_idp``.

##### Removal of deploy_sequencer_contract

BREAKING: The command ``deploy_sequencer_contract`` has been removed and exchanged with a deployment through genesis block in examples. The ``deploy_sequencer_contract``, while convenient, is ill-suited for any production environment and can cause more damage than harm. The deployment of a sequencing contract should only happen once on the blockchain; however, adding deployment as part of the bootstrapping script would cause a redeployment each time bootstrapping is done.

###### Specific Changes
The ``deploy_sequencer_contract`` is removed. And instead the sequencer binary is showcased in example using a genesis block deployment for Besu.

###### Impact and Migration
In a running production environment no changes should be needed, for test environments (that get constantly rebooted) changing to using the genesis block deployment (or a separate deployment script) is advised.

#### Configuration
##### Migrate And Start
Canton now supports a "migrate and start" mode, where the database schema is automatically updated when a new minor version is deployed. This mode can be enabled by setting the appropriate storage parameter: `canton.X.Y.storage.parameters.migrate-and-start = yes`.

##### Additional Crypto Provider Support

As an early access feature, a new crypto provider can be configured (JCE) instead of the default Tink.
Participants can use different crypto providers to interact on the same domain.

If you upgrade your participant (configured to use the default crypto provider Tink) to 2.7 and want to use it with a domain where other participants are using JCE, then you need to rotate the keys on the participant using Tink as otherwise, the JCE participants can't encrypt the data for your participant.

##### Command Service simplification
The `com.daml.ledger.api.v1.CommandService` service has been simplified under the hood. On the API, this implies:
- The semantics of `command-service.max-tracking-timeout` has changed. It now configures for how long will the command service look for the completion of an in-flight submission before timing out to the client.
- `command-service.input-buffer-size` config is removed as the command service input buffer is removed.
- `command-service.tracker-retention-period` is removed as the underlying submission tracker behavior has changed.

These settings / configurations were never actively supported by Canton and have therefore been removed now.

##### Unique Contract Keys Deprecation

The `unique-contract-keys` parameters for both participant and domain nodes are now marked as deprecated. As of this release, the meaning and default value (`true`) remain unchanged. However, contract key uniqueness will not be available in the next major version, featuring multi-domain connectivity. If you are already setting this key to `false` explicitly (preview), this behavior will be the default one after the configuration key is removed. If you don't explicitly set this value to `false`, you are encouraged to evaluate evolving your existing applications and services to avoid relying on this feature.
  You can read more on the topic in the [documentation](https://docs.daml.com/2.7.0/canton/usermanual/contract_keys.html).

##### Change within Sequencer Configuration
The configuration of the Sequencer Client has been updated to accommodate multiple sequencers and their endpoints. This is a change for the upcoming 3.x release. To manage these connections, a new class called "SequencerConnections" has been introduced. It is now accepted as part of the Sequencer Client configuration.

BREAKING: The method "SequencerConnection.addConnection" has been renamed to "SequencerConnections.addEndpoints" to better reflect the fact that it modifies an endpoint for the sequencer.

##### Causality Tracking
BREAKING: An obsolete early access feature to enable causality tracking, related to preview multi-domain, was removed. If you enabled it, you need to remove the following config lines, as they will not compile anymore:
```
participants.participant.init.parameters.unsafe-enable-causality-tracking = true
participants.participant.parameters.enable-causality-tracking = true
```

##### Activation of unsupported features
In order to activate unsupported features, you now need to explicitly enable `dev-version-support` on the domain (in addition to the non-standard config flag). More information can be found in the
[documentation](https://docs.daml.com/2.7.0/canton/usermanual/FAQ.html#how-do-i-enable-unsupported-features).

##### Default participant admin user
In order to create a bespoke participant admin user on startup, you need to add the following line to your configuration
```
participants.participant.ledger-api.user-management-service.additional-admin-user-id = "my-admin-id"
```

#### Ledger API

##### Customizable JWT Audiences
The `IdentityProviderConfig` record that contains the Identity Provider Config has been extended with an `audience` field. When set, the callers using JWT tokens issued by this identity provider are allowed to get an access only if the `aud` claim includes the string matching this specification.

##### Implied Identity Provider Id
The `identity_provider_id` field on gRPC requests can be left empty if the JWT token submitted with the request already specifies an identity provider via an `iss` field. This affects the following service calls:
  - `GetParties`, `ListKnownParties`, `AllocateParty` and `UpdatePartyDetails` of the `PartyManagementService` service.
  - `GetUser`, `ListUsers`, `CreateUser`, `UpdateUser`, `DeleteUser`, `GrantUserRights`, `RevokeUserRights`, `ListUserRights` of the `UserManagementService` service.

##### Re-assignment of Identity Providers
Users and parties can now be re-assigned between identity providers.
Specific changes are as follows:
  - Addition of a `UpdatePartyIdentityProviderId` call to the `PartyManagementService` service.
  - Addition of a `UpdateUserIdentityProviderId` call to the `UserManagementService` service.

##### Ledger API Error Codes
BREAKING: The error codes and metadata of gRPC errors returned as part of failed command interpretation from the Ledger API have been updated to include more information. Previously, most errors from the Daml engine would be given as either `GenericInterpretationError` or `InvalidArgumentInterpretationError`. They now all have their own codes and encode relevant information in the gRPC Status metadata.
Specific error changes are as follows:
  - `GenericInterpretationError` (Code: `DAML_INTERPRETATION_ERROR`) with gRPC status `FAILED_PRECONDITION` is now split into:
    - `DisclosedContractKeyHashingError` (Code: `DISCLOSED_CONTRACT_KEY_HASHING_ERROR`) with gRPC status `FAILED_PRECONDITION`
    - `UnhandledException` (Code: `UNHANDLED_EXCEPTION`) with gRPC status `FAILED_PRECONDITION`
    - `InterpretationUserError` (Code: `INTERPRETATION_USER_ERROR`) with gRPC status `FAILED_PRECONDITION`
    - `TemplatePreconditionViolated` (Code: `TEMPLATE_PRECONDITION_VIOLATED`) with gRPC status `INVALID_ARGUMENT`
  - `InvalidArgumentInterpretationError` (Code: `DAML_INTERPRETER_INVALID_ARGUMENT`) with gRPC status `INVALID_ARGUMENT` is now split into:
    - `CreateEmptyContractKeyMaintainers` (Code: `CREATE_EMPTY_CONTRACT_KEY_MAINTAINERS`) with gRPC status `INVALID_ARGUMENT`
    - `FetchEmptyContractKeyMaintainers` (Code: `FETCH_EMPTY_CONTRACT_KEY_MAINTAINERS`) with gRPC status `INVALID_ARGUMENT`
    - `WronglyTypedContract` (Code: `WRONGLY_TYPED_CONTRACT`) with gRPC status `FAILED_PRECONDITION`
    - `ContractDoesNotImplementInterface` (Code: `CONTRACT_DOES_NOT_IMPLEMENT_INTERFACE`) with gRPC status `INVALID_ARGUMENT`
    - `ContractDoesNotImplementRequiringInterface` (Code: `CONTRACT_DOES_NOT_IMPLEMENT_REQUIRING_INTERFACE`) with gRPC status `INVALID_ARGUMENT`
    - `NonComparableValues` (Code: `NON_COMPARABLE_VALUES`) with gRPC status `INVALID_ARGUMENT`
    - `ContractIdInContractKey` (Code: `CONTRACT_ID_IN_CONTRACT_KEY`) with gRPC status `INVALID_ARGUMENT`
    - `ContractIdComparability` (Code: `CONTRACT_ID_COMPARABILITY`) with gRPC status `INVALID_ARGUMENT`
    - `InterpretationDevError` (Code: `INTERPRETATION_DEV_ERROR`) with gRPC status `FAILED_PRECONDITION`
  - The `ContractKeyNotVisible` error (previously encapsulated by `GenericInterpretationError`) is now transformed into a `ContractKeyNotFound` to avoid information leaking.

#### Packaging

BREAKING: If you use the canton release jar directly, beware that you will now need to explicitly add the [bouncycastle](https://www.bouncycastle.org/java.html) library to the classpath.
The jar for that library is next to the canton jar in the `lib` folder and called `bcprov-jdk15on-1.70.jar`. This change was necessary to support Oracle JRE.

## Bugfixes
The following bugs were fixed in patch releases of 2.6 and are therefore mentioned here for completeness.

### Unexpected disconnect of a participant from a domain
Major: When a participant disconnects and reconnects to a domain without a restart and then experiences a database error for one particular database operation it will disconnect the participant from the domain unexpectedly.
Fixed in 2.6.6

### Crash recovery bug in request counter allocator for repair requests
Moderate: When using the repair service of a participant, the participant may fail to reconnect to the domains affected by the repairs.
Fixed in 2.6.6

### Pruning may be broken after hard domain migration
Moderate: After performing a hard domain migration on a participant, the participant can't be pruned anymore in some cases.
Fixed in 2.6.6

### Crash recovery bug in ACS commitment processing
Critical: A participant may fail to reconnect to a domain and the reconnect attempt seems stuck.
Fixed in 2.6.5

### Source Description of DARs that start with a `.`
Cosmetic: when uploading a DAR whose name starts with a `.`, the file extension will not appear anymore in the `sourceDescription`.
Fixed in 2.7.0

### Race condition during participant node initialization
Minor: A participant that initially starts as passive but then becomes active will not resume the node initialisation and therefore remain stuck.
Fixed in 2.6.5

### Missing support for http health check monitoring for domain nodes
Minor: HTTP/1 health checks which are supported on participant, mediator, sequencer and domain manager nodes were missed on embedded domain nodes.
Fixed in 2.6.5

### Resource exhaustion due to concurrent Daml package loading during catchup
Minor: The Daml engine will cache packages once they are loaded. However, any concurrent interpretation will keep on requesting the package from the database, leading to the situation where the same package is loaded many times. Problem can be compounded if the participant starts with a large load immediately after restart. Eventually, this can lead to out of memory issues due to the temporary memory consumption spike in systems without generously provisioned resources.
Fixed in 2.6.4

### Lack of throttling on asynchronous message processing leading to resource exhaustion
Moderate: If the node has fallen behind sufficiently and is memory constrained, the lack of throtteling of the async processing (only sync part is throttled) can lead to OutOfMemory exceptions that will happen periodically until the node is caught up again.
Fixed in 2.6.4

### ACS commitment processor crash recovery deadlock due to high load
Critical: Restarting Canton after a crash under high load can lead to a deadlock in the ACS commitment processor.
Fixed in 2.6.4

### Phase37 synchronizer can be crashed due to a malicious mediator response
Minor: When someone sends a fake mediator result with a wrongly declared type, the participant node would crash with a ClassCastException
Fixed in 2.6.3

## Compatibility

The following Canton protocol versions are supported:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Canton protocol versions   | 3, 4, 5          |

Canton has been tested against the following versions of its dependencies:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Java Runtime               | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM Zulu11.62+17-CA (build 11.0.18+10-LTS, mixed mode)               |
| Postgres                   | postgres (PostgreSQL) 14.8 (Debian 14.8-1.pgdg120+1)           |
| Oracle                     | 19.18.0             |


## What's Coming

We are currently working on
- zero downtime distributed smart contract upgrading
- multi-domain general availability (per 3.0)
