# Release of Canton 2.7.5

Canton 2.7.5 has been released on November 1, 2023. You can download the Daml Open Source edition from the Daml Connect [Github Release Section](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/releases/tag/2.7.5). The Enterprise edition is available on [Artifactory](https://digitalasset.jfrog.io/artifactory/canton-enterprise/canton-enterprise-2.7.5.zip).
Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://docs.daml.com/2.7.5/canton/about.html).

## Summary

This is a maintenance release.

## Bugfixes

### (23-032, Critical): Replayed submissions make crash recovery fail

#### Issue Description
Canton cannot reconnect to a domain after a duplicated submission request.

#### Affected Deployments
Participant

#### Affected Versions
2.3 to 2.7.4

#### Impact
The participant is left in a failed state.

#### Symptom
Connecting to the domain fails with an internal error "IllegalStateException: Cannot find event for sequenced in-flight submission".

#### Workaround
No workaround by clients possible.

#### Likeliness
Needs a submission request being sequenced twice.
This should not happen under normal operations, but it did happen with the Besu driver.

#### Recommendation
Upgrade to 2.7.5

## What’s New

### Minor Improvements
- UX improvement on reporting of mediator’s component health states on the console.

### Configuration Changes

#### Breaking: KMS wrapper-key configuration value now accepts a simple string
The expected KMS wrapper-key configuration value has changed from:

```
    crypto.private-key-store.encryption.wrapper-key-id = { str = "..."}
```

to a simple string:

```
    crypto.private-key-store.encryption.wrapper-key-id = "..."
```

## Compatibility

The following Canton protocol and Ethereum sequencer contract versions are supported:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Canton protocol versions   | 3, 4, 5          |

Canton has been tested against the following versions of its dependencies:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Java Runtime               | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM Zulu11.62+17-CA (build 11.0.18+10-LTS, mixed mode)               |
| Postgres                   | postgres (PostgreSQL) 14.9 (Debian 14.9-1.pgdg120+1)           |
| Oracle                     | 19.18.0             |
