# Release of Canton 2.7.8

Canton 2.7.8 has been released on March 13, 2024. You can download the Daml Open Source edition from the Daml Connect [Github Release Section](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/releases/tag/v2.7.8). The Enterprise edition is available on [Artifactory](https://digitalasset.jfrog.io/artifactory/canton-enterprise/canton-enterprise-2.7.8.zip).
Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://docs.daml.com/2.7.8/canton/about.html).

## Summary

This is a maintenance release, fixing an issue that can happen during participant failover where the new active participant replica fails to reconnect to the domain in a timely matter.
To improve operations around fatal failures that Canton cannot handle gracefully yet, a node will now exit to recover from an invalid state by being restarted through an external process/service monitor.

## Minor Improvements

### Node's Exit on Fatal Failures

When a node encounters a fatal failure that Canton cannot handle gracefully yet, the new default behavior is that the node will exit/stop the process and relies on an external process or service monitor to restart the node's process.

Failures that are currently logged as an error but not automatically recovered from are:

1) Unhandled exceptions when processing events from a domain, which currently leads to a disconnect from that domain.
2) Failed transition from an active replica to a passive replica, which may result in an invalid state of the node.

The new behavior can be reverted by setting: `canton.parameters.exit-on-fatal-failures = false` in the configuration.

## Bugfixes

### (24-007, Major): Domain reconnect does not complete timely during participant failover

#### Issue Description

During participant failover the newly active participant does not complete reconnecting to the domain and fail to declare itself as active in a timely manner. This can happen when the passive replica, which has become active, has been idle for a longer time while there has been many transactions processed by the former active replica.

#### Affected Deployments

Participant

#### Affected Versions
2.3-2.6,
2.7.0-2.7.7
2.8.0-2.8.3

#### Impact

During participant failover the newly active participant does not become active and does not serve commands and transactions in a timely manner.

#### Symptom

"One of the last log entries before the participant only outputs storage health checks anymore is like:

`INFO c.d.c.p.s.d.DbMultiDomainEventLog:participant=participant1 Fetch unpublished from domain::122345... up to Some(1234)`

The participant reports itself as not active and not connected to any domains in its health status."

#### Workaround

Restart the participant node.

#### Likeliness

It depends on how long the passive replica has been idle, the number and size of transactions that the active replica has processed in the meantime. These factors depend how timely the failover and in particular reconnect to the domain completes.

#### Recommendation

Upgrade to 2.7.8


## Compatibility

The following Canton protocol and Ethereum sequencer contract versions are supported:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Canton protocol versions   | 3, 4, 5          |

Canton has been tested against the following versions of its dependencies:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Java Runtime               | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM Zulu11.70+15-CA (build 11.0.22+7-LTS, mixed mode)               |
| Postgres                   | postgres (PostgreSQL) 14.11 (Debian 14.11-1.pgdg120+2)           |
| Oracle                     | 19.18.0             |


