# Release of Canton 2.8.1

Canton 2.8.1 has been released on January 31, 2024. You can download the Daml Open Source edition from the Daml Connect [Github Release Section](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/releases/tag/v2.8.1). The Enterprise edition is available on [Artifactory](https://digitalasset.jfrog.io/artifactory/canton-enterprise/canton-enterprise-2.8.1.zip).
Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://docs.daml.com/2.8.1/canton/about.html).

## Summary

This is a maintenance release of Canton including reliability fixes and user experience improvements.
Users of the Fabric driver are encouraged to upgrade at their disposal.

## What’s New

### Minor Improvements
#### Improved reference configuration example
We have reworked the reference configuration example. The ``examples/03_advanced_configuration`` example has been replaced
by a set of reference configuration files which can be found in the ``config`` directory. While the previous example
contained pieces which could be assembled into a full configuration, the new examples now contain the full configuration
which can be simplified by removing parts which are not needed.
The `installation guide <https://docs.daml.com/canton/usermanual/installation.html>`_ has been updated accordingly.

#### Improved Party Replication Macros
The enterprise version now supports replicating a party from one participant node to another for either migration or
to have multiple participants hosting the same party. Please consult the `documentation <https://docs.daml.com/2.9.0/canton/usermanual/identity_management.html#replicate-party-to-another-participant-node>`_
on how to use this feature.

#### Reduced Background Journal Cleaning Load
We have improved the background journal cleaning to produce less load on the database by using smaller transactions to clean up
the journal.

### Executor Service Metrics removed
The metrics for the execution services have been removed:

- daml.executor.runtime.completed*
- daml.executor.runtime.duration*
- daml.executor.runtime.idle*
- daml.executor.runtime.running*
- daml.executor.runtime.submitted*
- daml_executor_pool_size
- daml_executor_pool_core
- daml_executor_pool_max
- daml_executor_pool_largest
- daml_executor_threads_active
- daml_executor_threads_running
- daml_executor_tasks_queued
- daml_executor_tasks_executing_queued
- daml_executor_tasks_stolen
- daml_executor_tasks_submitted
- daml_executor_tasks_completed
- daml_executor_tasks_queue_remaining

## Bugfixes

### (24-001, Major): Fabric Block Sequencer may deadlock when catching up

#### Issue Description
Fabric Ledger block processing runs into an unintended shutdown and fails to process blocks when the
in-memory blocks exceeds 5000. This is caused when catching up after downtime and the Fabric Ledger
size has increased substantially in the meantime.

#### Affected Deployments
Fabric Sequencer Node

#### Affected Versions
2.3 - 2.7 and 2.8.0

#### Impact
The sequencer stops feeding new blocks.

#### Symptom
Participant gets stuck in an old state and does not visibly catch up against a Fabric Ledger.
Therefore, a ``domains.reconnect`` call on the participant may appear as if it is hanging.

On the sequencer node, each processed message is logged using ``Observed Send with messageId`` including a
timestamp. Once the emission of these log lines stops, the sequencer is stuck.

#### Workaround
Restart the sequencer node if it is stuck.

#### Likeliness
Rarely, only occurs when catching up to a Fabric Ledger that the sequencer node has been an active part of before.

#### Recommendation
Upgrade to 2.8.1 at your convenience.

## Compatibility

The following Canton protocol versions are supported:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Canton protocol versions   | 3, 4, 5          |

Canton has been tested against the following versions of its dependencies:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Java Runtime               | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM Zulu11.66+15-CA (build 11.0.20+8-LTS, mixed mode)               |
| Postgres                   | Recommended: PostgreSQL 12.17 (Debian 12.17-1.pgdg120+1) – Also tested: PostgreSQL 11.16 (Debian 11.16-1.pgdg90+1), PostgreSQL 13.13 (Debian 13.13-1.pgdg120+1), PostgreSQL 14.10 (Debian 14.10-1.pgdg120+1), PostgreSQL 15.5 (Debian 15.5-1.pgdg120+1)           |
| Oracle                     | 19.20.0             |
