# Release of Canton 2.8.0

Canton 2.8.0 has been released on December 15, 2023. You can download the Daml Open Source edition from the Daml Connect [Github Release Section](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/releases/tag/v2.8.0). The Enterprise edition is available on [Artifactory](https://digitalasset.jfrog.io/artifactory/canton-enterprise/canton-enterprise-2.8.0.zip).
Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://docs.daml.com/2.8.0/canton/about.html).

## Summary

We are excited to announce Canton 2.8.0, which offers some great additional features:
- distributed tracing enhancements
- event query service
- many operational, quality, security and performance improvements.

See below for details.

Please upgrade to this version as soon as possible. Version 2.7 will not be maintained after March 2024.

## What’s New

### Explicit contract disclosure is now available in Beta
#### Background
Explicit contract disclosure allows you to delegate contract read rights to a non-stakeholder using off-ledger data distribution.

The feature is now available in Beta and enabled by default. or more information, [see the documentation](https://docs.daml.com/2.8.0/app-dev/explicit-contract-disclosure.html).

#### Specific Changes
- The `participant.ledger-api.explicit-disclosure-unsafe` feature flag is replaced by `participant.ledger-api.enable-explicit-disclosure`
  which is by default set to `true`. To disable the feature, set the new flag to `false`.

### Distributed Tracing Enhancements
#### Background
Distributed tracing is a technique for troubleshooting performance issues in a microservices environment like Daml Enterprise. Canton supports distributed tracing, and the support on the Ledger API is improving. In this release, the client applications gain the ability to extract trace and span IDs from past transactions and completions, so that distributed traces can continue in follow-up commands.

To learn how to extend your application to support distributed tracing, [see the documentation](https://docs.daml.com/2.8.0/app-dev/bindings-java/open-tracing.html).

#### Specific Changes
Trace contexts are now included in the gRPC messages return in Ledger API streams and point-wise queries. This change affects the following transaction and command completion service calls:
- `TransactionService.GetTransactions`
- `TransactionService.GetTransactionTrees`
- `TransactionService.GetTransactionByEventId`
- `TransactionService.GetTransactionById`
- `TransactionService.GetFlatTransactionByEventId`
- `TransactionService.GetFlatTransactionById`
- `CompletionService.CompletionStream`

Trace context enables client applications that were not the submitters of the original request to pick up the initial spans and continue them in follow-up requests. This allows multi-step workflows to be adorned with contiguous chains of related spans.

#### Impact and Migration
This is a purely additive change.

### Event Query Service is now available as Beta
#### Background
Use the **event query service** to obtain a party-specific view of contract events.

The gRPC API provides ledger streams to off-ledger components that maintain a queryable state. This service allows you to make simple event queries without off-ledger components like the JSON API.

Using the event query service, you can create, retrieve, and archive events associated with a contract ID or contract key. The API returns only those events where at least one of the requesting parties is a stakeholder of the contract. If the contract is still active, the `archive_event` is unset.

Contract keys can be used by multiple contracts over time. The latest contract events are returned first. To access earlier contract key events, use the `continuation_token` returned in the `GetEventsByContractKeyResponse` in a subsequent `GetEventsByContractKeyRequest`.

If no events match the request criteria or the requested events are not visible to the requesting parties, an empty structure is returned. Events associated with consumed contracts are returned until they are pruned.

#### Specific Changes

- Retrieve contract events by contract ID via the `GetEventsByContractId` request.
- Retrieve contract events by contract key via the `GetEventsByContractKey` request.

#### Impact and Migration
This is a purely additive change.

### Automatic participant pruning support for pruning internal-only state
#### Background
Pruning presents a trade-off between limiting ledger storage space and being able to query ledger history far into the past.
Only pruning participant-internal state strikes a balance by deleting exclusively internal state. As a result, applications
can continue to query historic portions of the ledger, but internal-only pruning frees up less storage space than regular pruning.
Previously, internal pruning was available only via the "manual" `participant.pruning.prune_internally`
command. With this release, pruning participant internal-only state also becomes available through **automatic pruning** as well.

#### Specific Changes

- Configure automatic, internal-only pruning using the new `participant.pruning.set_participant_schedule` command's `prune_internally_only` parameter.
- Retrieve the currently active participant schedule including the `prune_internally_only` setting via the newly introduced `participant.pruning.get_participant_schedule` command.

#### Impact and Migration
This is a purely additive change.

## Minor Changes

### Logging Cleanup
We've cleaned up our transaction processing logging to make it easier to understand what is happening.
Now, significant events on all nodes are logged at `INFO` levels and including relevant information.

### Ledger API Command Submission Changes

#### CommandService gRPC deadline logic
Commands submitted to the Ledger API now respects the grpc [deadlines](https://grpc.io/docs/guides/deadlines/):
If a request reaches the command processing layer with an already-expired gRPC deadline, the command will not be sent for submission.
Instead, the request is rejected with a new self-service error code `REQUEST_DEADLINE_EXCEEDED`, which informs the client
that the command is guaranteed not to have been sent for execution to the ledger.

#### Command Interpretation Timeouts
If you submit a command that runs for a very long time, the Ledger API will now reject the command with the new self-service error
code `INTERPRETATION_TIME_EXCEEDED` when the transaction would reach the ledger time tolerance limit based on the
submission time.

### Protocol versions 3 and 4 are deprecated
Protocol versions 3 and 4 are now marked as deprecated and will be removed in the next minor release of Canton.
Protocol version 5 should be preferred for any new deployment.

### Configuration Changes

#### Breaking: KMS wrapper-key configuration value now accepts a simple string
The expected KMS wrapper-key configuration value has changed from:

```
    crypto.private-key-store.encryption.wrapper-key-id = { str = "..."}
```

to a simple string:

```
    crypto.private-key-store.encryption.wrapper-key-id = "..."
```

#### Parallel Node Startup

Nodes will now start up in parallel. The startup parallelism can be configured by setting:
```
    canton.parameters.startup-parallelism = 1 // defaults to number of threads.
```

#### Breaking: Schema migration attempts configuration for the indexer
The configuration fields `schema-migration-attempt-backoff` and `schema-migration-attempts` for the indexer were removed.
The following config lines will have to be removed, if they exist:
```
participants.participant.parameters.ledger-api-server-parameters.indexer.schema-migration-attempt-backoff
participants.participant.parameters.ledger-api-server-parameters.indexer.schema-migration-attempts
```

#### Breaking: Cache weight configuration for the Ledger API server
The configuration fields `max-event-cache-weight` and `max-contract-cache-weight` for the ledger api server were removed.
The following config lines will have to be removed, if they exist:
```
participants.participant.ledger-api.max-event-cache-weight
participants.participant.ledger-api.max-contract-cache-weight
```

#### Config Logging On Startup
By default, Canton will log the config values on startup, as this has turned out to be useful for troubleshooting, in order to understand what configuration is related to the given log-file.

This feature can be turned off by setting
```
    canton.monitoring.logging.log-config-on-startup = false
```

Logging the configuration including all default values can be turned on using
```
    canton.monitoring.logging.log-config-with-defaults = true
```
Note that this will log all available settings, which includes parameters which we do not recommend changing.
Confidential data will not be logged but replaced by `xxxx`.

#### Mediator Finalized Response Cache
The mediator finalized response cache can now be configured using:
```
    canton.mediators.mediator.caching.finalized-mediator-requests = 1000 // default
```
which allows you to limit memory consumption in the presence of a transaction with a very large number of views.

#### Default Size of Ledger API Caches
The default sizes of the contract state and contract key state caches has been decreased by one order of magnitude from 100'000 to 10'000.
```
   canton.participants.participant.ledger-api.index-service.max-contract-state-cache-size
   canton.participants.participant.ledger-api.index-service.max-contract-key-state-cache-size
```
The size of these caches determines the likelihood that a transaction using a contract/contract-key that was recently created or read will still find it
in memory rather than need to query it from the database. Larger caches might be of interest in use cases where there is a big pool of ambient
contracts that are consistently being fetched or used for non consuming exercises. It may also benefit those use cases where a big pool of contracts
is being rotated through a `create -> archive -> create-successor` cycle.
Consider adjusting these parameters explicitly if the performance of your specific workflow depends on large caches, and you were relying on the defaults thus far.
Beware that increasing these caches will increase the memory consumption of the Ledger API, which in turn might lead to garbage collection pauses if you run the node with insufficient heap memory reserves.

#### Default Number of Max Transactions in the In-Memory Fan-Out
The default maximum number of transactions stored in the in-memory fan-out has been decreased by one order of magnitude from 10'000 to 1'000.
```
   canton.participants.participant.ledger-api.index-service.max-transactions-in-memory-fan-out-buffer-size
```
The in-memory fan-out allows serving the transaction streams from memory as they are finalized, rather than using the database.
You should choose this buffer to be large enough such that the likeliness of applications having to stream transactions from the database is low.
Generally, having a 10s buffer is sensible. Therefore, if you expect e.g. a throughput of 20 tx/s, then setting this number to 200 is sensible.
The new default setting of 1000 assumes 100 tx/s. Consider adjusting these parameters explicitly if the performance of your specific workflow foresees transaction rates larger than 100 tx/s.

#### Target Scope for JWT Authorization
The default scope (scope field in the scope based token) for authenticating on the Ledger API using JWT is `daml_ledger_api`.
Other scopes can be configured explicitly using the custom target scope configuration option:
```
   canton.participants.participant.ledger-api.auth-services.0.target-scope="custom/Scope-5:with_special_characters"
```
Target scope can be any case-sensitive string containing alphanumeric characters, hyphens, slashes, colons and underscores.
Either the `target-scope` or `target-audience` parameter can be configured, but not both.

#### SQL Batching Parameter has been moved
The expert mode sql batching parameter
```
  canton.participants.participant.parameters.stores.max-items-in-sql-clause
```
has been moved to:
```
  canton.participants.participant.parameters.batching.max-items-in-sql-clause
```
Generally, we recommend to not change this parameter unless advised by support.

#### Explicit Settings for Database Connection Pool Sizes

The sizes of the connection pools used for interactions with database storage inside
Canton nodes are determined using a dedicated formula described in the documentation article on
[max connection settings](https://docs.daml.com/canton/usermanual/persistence.html#max-connection-settings):

The values obtained from that formula can now be overridden using explicit configuration settings for
the read, write and ledger-api connection pool sizes:

```
canton.participants.participant.storage.parameters.connection-allocation.num-reads
canton.participants.participant.storage.parameters.connection-allocation.num-writes
canton.participants.participant.storage.parameters.connection-allocation.num-ledger-api
```

Similar parameters are available for other Canton node types:

```
canton.sequencers.sequencer.storage.parameters.connection-allocation...
canton.mediators.mediator.storage.parameters.connection-allocation...
canton.domain-managers.domain_manager.storage.parameters.connection-allocation...
```

The effective connection pool sizes are reported by the Canton nodes at start-up

```
INFO  c.d.c.r.DbStorageMulti$:participant=participant_b - Creating storage, num-reads: 5, num-writes: 4
```

### Console Changes

#### Ledger API commands

##### Usage of the applicationId in command submissions and completion subscriptions
Previously, the Canton console used a hard-coded "CantonConsole" as an applicationId in the command submissions and the completion subscriptions performed against the Ledger API.
Now, if an access token is provided to the console, it will extract the userId from that token and use it instead. A local console will use the adminToken provided in `canton.participants.<participant>.ledger-api.admin-token`, whereas a remote console will use the token from `canton.remote-participants.<remoteParticipant>.token`

This affects the following console commands:
- `ledger_api.commands.submit`
- `ledger_api.commands.submit_flat`
- `ledger_api.commands.submit_async`
- `ledger_api.completions.list`
- `ledger_api.completions.list_with_checkpoint`
- `ledger_api.completions.subscribe`

You can also override the applicationId by supplying it explicitly to these commands.

##### Introduction of Java Bindings Compatible Console Commands
The following console commands were added to support actions with java codegen compatible data:

- `participant.ledger_api.javaapi.commands.submit`
- `participant.ledger_api.javaapi.commands.submit_flat`
- `participant.ledger_api.javaapi.commands.submit_async`
- `participant.ledger_api.javaapi.transactions.trees`
- `participant.ledger_api.javaapi.transactions.flat`
- `participant.ledger_api.javaapi.acs.await`
- `participant.ledger_api.javaapi.acs.filter`
- `participant.ledger_api.javaapi.event_query.by_contract_id`
- `participant.ledger_api.javaapi.event_query.by_contract_key`

The following commands were replaced by their java bindings compatible equivalent (in parentheses):

- `participant.ledger_api.acs.await` (`participant.ledger_api.javaapi.acs.await`)
- `participant.ledger_api.acs.filter` (`participant.ledger_api.javaapi.acs.filter`)

Please note that the Scala codegen and bindings are not an officially supported feature and will be removed in a future release.
These commands here are provided for your convenience but are subject to change.

##### New Functions to Specify a Full-blown Transaction Filter for Flat Transactions

`ledger_api.transactions.flat_with_tx_filter` and `ledger_api.javaapi.transactions.flat_with_tx_filter` are more
sophisticated alternatives to `ledger_api.transactions.flat` and `ledger_api.javaapi.transactions.flat` respectively
that allow to specify a full transaction filter instead of a set of parties. Consider using this if you need to
specify more fine-grained filters that include template IDs, interface IDs, and/or whether you want to retrieve
create event blobs for explicit disclosure.

#### Repair Commands

##### Commands around ACS migration
Console commands for ACS migration can now be used with remote nodes. This change applies to the [commands in the `repair` namespace](https://docs.daml.com/2.8.0/canton/reference/console.html#participant-repair).

##### New ACS export / import repair commands
The new ACS export / import commands, `repair.export_acs` and `repair.import_acs` provide similar functionality as the
existing `repair.download` and `repair.upload` commands. However, its implementation allows to evolve it better over
time.

Consequently, the existing download / upload functionality has been deprecated for 2.8.0 and is going to be
removed with a next release.

##### Transactions generated by importing an ACS have a configurable workflow ID to track ongoing imports

Contract added via the `repair.party_migration.step2_import_acs` and `repair.import_acs` commands now include a
workflow ID. The ID is in the form `prefix-${n}-${m}`, where `m` is the number of transactions generated as part of
the import process and `n` is a sequential number from 1 to `m` inclusive. Each transaction contains 1 or more
contracts that share the ledger time of their creation. The two numbers allow you to track whether an import is being
processed. You can specify a prefix with the `workflow_id_prefix` string parameter defined on both commands. If not
specified, the prefix defaults to `import-${randomly-generated-unique-identifier}`.

#### Key Management Commands

##### keys.secret.rotate_node_key() console command
The console command `keys.secret.rotate_node_key` can now accept a name for the newly generated key.

##### Breaking: `owner_to_key_mappings.rotate_key` command expects a node reference
The previous `owner_to_key_mappings.rotate_key` is deprecated and now expects a node reference (`InstanceReferenceCommon`)
to avoid any dangerous and/or unwanted key rotations.

#### Miscellaneous Commands

##### Domain filtering in testing commands
To improve consistency and code safety, some testing console commands now expect an optional domain alias (rather than
a plain domain alias). For example, the following call
```
participant.testing.event_search("da")
```
needs to be rewritten to
```
participant.testing.event_search(Some("da"))
```

The impacted console commands are:

- `participant.testing.event_search`
- `participant.testing.transaction_search`



##### DAR vetting and unvetting commands
DAR vetting and unvetting convenience commands have been added to:
* Canton admin API as `PackageService.VetDar` and `PackageService.UnvetDar`
* Canton console as `participant.dars.vetting.enable` and `participant.dars.vetting.disable`

Additionally, two error codes have been introduced to allow better error reporting to the client when working with DAR vetting/unvetting: `DAR_NOT_FOUND` and `PACKAGE_MISSING_DEPENDENCIES`.
Please note that these commands are alpha only and subject to change.

##### Deprecations
- `SequencerConnection.addConnection` is deprecated. Use `SequencerConnection.addEndpoints` instead.
- `repair.download` and `repair.upload` Console Commands are deprecated. Use `repair.export_acs` and `repair.import_acs` commands instead.
- Removed obsolete dar sharing service.

### Metrics Changes
- The DB metric `lookup_active_contracts` is removed in favor of `lookup_created_contracts` and `lookup_archived_contracts`. This reflects the change of active contract lookup from DB: switching for a single batched active DB query to two parallel executed batch queries targeting archived and created events.
- The sequencer client metric `load` is removed without replacement, as it was not measuring anything meaningful.

### Error Code Changes

#### Breaking: Submission service error code change
The error code `SEQUENCER_DELIVER_ERROR` that could be received when submitting a transaction has been superseded by two separate new error codes:
`SEQUENCER_SUBMISSION_REQUEST_MALFORMED` and `SEQUENCER_SUBMISSION_REQUEST_REFUSED`. Please migrate client applications code if you rely on the older error code.

### Packaging

We have reverted the change from 2.7.0 that introduced the distribution of a separate `bcprov-jdk15on-1.70.jar` along the canton jar in the `lib` folder. This revert was also enacted in the version 2.7.1.
If you use the Oracle JRE, beware that you will now need to explicitly add the [bouncycastle](https://www.bouncycastle.org/java.html) library to the classpath when running canton.

### Faster emission of command rejections
Some commands that the participant rejected locally, e.g., command deduplication errors, produced a rejection completion only after the participant observed some other traffic from the domain.
Such commands now produce the rejection completion immediately.

## Bugfixes

### (23-023, Critical): Crash recovery issue in command deduplication store

#### Issue Description
On restart of a sync domain, the participant will replay pending transactions, updating the stores in case some writes were not persisted. Within the command deduplication store, existing records are compared with to be written records for internal consistency checking purposes. This comparison includes the trace context which differs on a restart and hence can cause the check to fail, aborting the startup with an IllegalArgumentException.

#### Affected Deployments
Participant

#### Impact
An affected participant can not reconnect to the given domain, which means that transaction processing is blocked.

#### Symptom
Upon restart, the participant refuses to reconnect to the domain, writing the following log message: ERROR c.d.c.p.s.d.DbCommandDeduplicationStore ...  - An internal error has occurred.
java.lang.IllegalArgumentException: Cannot update command deduplication data for ChangeIdHash

#### Workaround
No workaround exists. You need to upgrade to a version not affected by this issue.

#### Likelihood
The error happens if a participant crashes with a particular state not yet written to the database. The bug has been present since end of Nov 21 and has never been observed before, not even during testing.

#### Recommendation
Upgrade during your next maintenance window to a patch version not affected by this issue.

### (23-022, Major): - `rotate_keys` command is dangerous and does not work when there are multiple sequencers

#### Issue Description

We allow the replacement of key A with key B, but we cannot guarantee that the node using key A will actually have access to key B.

Furthermore, when attempting to rotate the keys of a sequencer using the `rotate_node_keys(domainManagerRef)` method,
it will fail if we have more than one sequencer in our environment.
This occurs because they share a unique identifier (UID), and as a result, this console command not only rotates the
keys of the sequencer it is called on but also affects the keys of the other sequencers.

Modified the process of finding keys for rotation in the `rotate_node_keys(domainManagerRef)`
function to prevent conflicts among multiple sequencers that share the same UID.
Additionally, we have updated the console command `owner_to_key_mappings.rotate_key` to
expect a node reference (`InstanceReferenceCommon`), thereby ensuring that both the current
and new keys are associated with the correct node.

#### Affected Deployments
All nodes (but mostly sequencer)

#### Impact
A node can mistakenly rotate keys that do not pertain to it. Using  `rotate_node_keys(domainManagerRef)`  to rotate a sequencer's keys when other sequencers are present will also fail and break Canton.

#### Symptom
When you try to rotate a sequencer's key, it catastrophically fails with a `java.lang.RuntimeException: KeyNotAvailable`.

#### Workaround
For `rotate_node_keys(domainManagerRef)`, we have ensured that we filter the correct keys for rotation by checking both the authorized store and the local private key store.

Additionally, we have deprecated the existing `owner_to_key_mappings.rotate_key` and introduced a new method that requires the user to provide the node instance for which they intend to apply the key rotation. We have also implemented a validation check within this function to ensure that the current and new keys are associated with this node.

#### Likelihood
Every use of `rotate_node_keys` to rotate the keys of sequencer(s) in a multiple sequencer environment.

#### Recommendation
Upgrade the Canton console that you use to administrate the domain, in particular the sequencer and mediator, to a Canton version with the bug fix.

### (23-019, Minor): Fixed `rotate_node_keys` command when it is used to rotate keys of sequencer(s) and mediator(s)

#### Issue Description
Canton has a series of console commands to rotate keys, in particular, `rotate_node_keys` that is used
to rotate the keys of a node.

When we use the console macro `rotate_node_keys` to rotate the keys of a sequencer or mediator the keys are
actually not rotated because we are: (1) looking at the wrong topology management store and (2) not using the
associated domainManager to actually rotate the keys.

#### Affected deployments
Mediator and Sequencer nodes.

#### Impact
The rotation of the keys for a sequencer or mediator will not succeed.

#### Workaround
Select the correct topology management `Active` store (the one from the domainManager) to look for keys to rotate and
call the `rotate_key` console command with the domainManager reference.

#### Likelihood
Everytime we use `rotate_node_keys` to rotate the keys of sequencer(s) or mediator(s).

#### Recommendation
Upgrade the Canton console that you use to administrate the domain, in particular the sequencer and mediator,
to a Canton version with the bug fix.

### (23-020, Minor): Core contract input stakeholders bug

#### Background
The Canton protocol includes in `ViewParticipantData` contracts that required to re-interpret command evaluation. These inputs are known as `coreInputs`. Included as part of this input contract data is contract metadata the includes details of signatories and stakeholders.

#### Issue Description
Where the evaluation of a command results in a contract key being resolved to a contract identifier but that identifier is not in turn resolved to a contract instance that distributed metadata associated with contract will incorrectly have the key maintainers as both the signatory and the stakeholders. A way to do this would be to execute a choice on a contract other than the keyed contract that only issues a `lookupByKey` on the keyed contract.

#### Affected protocol versions
This problem is observed in canton protocol version 4 and fixed in version 5.

#### Impact
The impact of this bug is invalid contract metadata is distributed with transaction views.

#### Workaround
A workaround would be to ensure that whenever a contract key is resolved to a contract identifier that identifier is always resolved to a contract (even if not needed). For example following the `lookupByKey` if the case where a contract identifier is returned the issue a `fetch` command on this identifier, discarding the result.

#### Likelihood
Unlikely. Most of the time a contract key is resolved to a contract so that some action can be performed on that contract. In this situation the metadata would be correct. The only situation this has occurred observed is in test scenarios.

#### Recommendation
The recommendation is that no action is required. The problem will be naturally fixed in protocol version 5 and the workaround above can be used in the unlikely case it is observed.


### (23-021, Minor): Transaction view decomposition bug

#### Background
Transaction view decomposition is the process of taking a transaction and generating a view hierarchy whereby each view has a common set of informees. Each view additionally has a rollback scope. A child view having a rollback scope that is different from that of the parent indicates that any changes to the liveness of contracts that occurred within the child view should be disregarded upon exiting the child view. For example it would be valid for a contract to be consumed in a rolled back child view and then consumed again in a subsequent child view.

#### Issue Description
As the activeness of contracts is preserved across views with the same rollback scope every source transaction rollback node should be allocated a unique scope. In certain circumstances this is not happening resulting in contract activeness inconsistency.

#### Effected protocol versions
This problem is observed in canton protocol version 4 and fixed in version 5.

#### Impact
The impact of this bug is that a inconsistent transaction view hierarchy can be generated from a consistent transaction. This in turn can result in a valid transaction being rejected. The symptoms of this would be the mediator rejecting a valid transaction request on the basis of inconsistency.

#### Workaround
This bug only effects transactions that contain rollbacks, if use of rollbacks can be avoided this bug will not occur.

#### Likelihood
To encounter this bug requires a transaction that has multiple rolled back nodes in which overlapping contracts and/or keys are used. For this reason the likelihood of encountering the bug is low.

#### Recommendation
If this bug was to effect a client development then the best course of action would be to finalize and release canton protocol 5.

### (23-024, Moderate) Participant state topology transaction may be silently ignored during cascading update

#### Issue Description
In some cases, participant state and mediator domain state topology transactions were silently ignored when they were sent as part of a cascading topology update (which means they were sent together with a namespace certificate). As a result, the nodes had a different view on the topology state and not all daml transactions could be run.

#### Affected Deployments
All nodes

#### Impact
A participant node might consider another participant node as inactive and therefore refuse to send transactions or invalidate transactions.

#### Symptom
A Daml transaction might be rejected with `UNKNOWN_INFORMEES`.

#### Workaround
Flush the topology state by running `domain.participants.set_state(pid, Submission, Vip (and back to Ordinary))`. This will run the update through the "incremental" update code path that is behaving correctly, which fixes the topology state of the broken node.

#### Likelihood
The bug is deterministic and can occur when using permissioned domains, when the participant state is received together with the namespace delegation of the domain but without the namespace delegation of the participant.

#### Recommendation
Upgrade to this version if you intend to use permissioned domains. If you need to fix a broken system, then upgrade to a version fixing the issue and apply the work-around to ""flush"" the topology state.

### (23-025, Minor) PingService stops working after a LedgerAPI crash
After an Indexer restart in the Ledger API or any error causing the client transaction streams to fail, the PingService stops working.

#### Affected Deployments
The participant node

#### Impact
When the Ledger API encounters an error that leads to cancelling the client connections
while the participant node does not become passive, the PingService cannot continue processing commands.

#### Symptom
Ping commands issued in the PingService are timing out.
Additionally, the participant might appear unhealthy if configured to report health
by using the PingService (i.e. configured with `monitoring.health.check.type = ping`).

#### Workaround
Restart the participant node.

#### Likelihood
This bug occurs consistently when there is an error in the Ledger API, such as a DB overloaded
issue that causes the Ledger API Indexer to restart. For this bug to occur, the participant node
must not transition to passive state. If it transitions to passive and then back to active, the bug should not reproduce.

#### Recommendation
If the system is subject to frequent transient errors in the Ledger API (e.g. flaky Index database)
or consistently high load, update to this version in order to avoid reproducibility.

### (23-026, Minor) Non-graceful shutdown of the participant or the Ledger API
Participant may shut down ungracefully if there are still completing CommandService submissions or,
in extreme cases, the Ledger API can restart during normal operations.

#### Affected Deployments
The participant node

#### Impact
No significant operational impact.

#### Symptoms
* On shutdown, an exception including `IllegalStateException("Promise already completed.")` is logged.
* Pending CommandService submissions are not completed gracefully with SERVER_IS_SHUTTING_DOWN.
* In extreme cases, the issue can trigger a Ledger API restart during normal operation.

#### Workaround
Not applicable as the effect is mostly aesthetic.

#### Likelihood
This ungraceful shutdown is only likely under heavy usage of CommandService at the same time with the participant shutdown.
The likelihood of this bug triggering a Ledger API restart is very small as multiple conditions need to be met:
* Submissions with the same (submissionId, commandId, applicationId, submitters) change key are sent concurrently to both
the CommandSubmissionService and the CommandService.
* The chosen deduplication duration for the submissions is small enough to allow them to succeed within a small timeframe
(rather concurrently).

#### Recommendation
Upgrade when convenient.

### (23-027, Minor) Expired gRPC request deadlines crash requests in CommandService
The CommandService errors out when confronted with an expired gRPC request deadline.

#### Affected Deployments
The participant node

#### Impact
If encountered repeatedly (up to the maximum-in-flight configuration limit for the CommandService),
the CommandService can appear saturated and reject new commands.

#### Symptoms
When a command request is submitted via CommandService.submitAndWait and its variants with providing a gRPC request deadline,
the request can fail with an INTERNAL error reported to the client and a log message with ERROR level is logged on the participant.

#### Workaround
Restart the participant and use a higher gRPC request deadline.

#### Likelihood
This bug is likely to happen if the gRPC request deadline is small enough for it to expire upon arriving at the participant's Ledger API.

#### Recommendation
Upgrade when convenient.

### (23-028, Minor) PingService completions re-subscription loop
A Ledger API restart following a pruning event can lead to a non-functioning PingService

#### Affected Deployments
The participant node

#### Impact
The PingService is not functional after this error is encountered.

#### Symptoms
* Ping commands issued in the PingService are timing out.
* The participant node is continuously logging re-subscription errors with `PARTICIPANT_PRUNED_DATA_ACCESSED` every one second.
* Additionally, the participant might appear unhealthy if configured to report health by using the PingService.

#### Workaround
Restart the participant node.

#### Likelihood
This bug is likely when in the same participant active session, a pruning request is followed by Ledger API restart (caused by transient errors such as a DB connectivity).
For this bug to occur, the participant node must not transition to passive state. If it transitions to passive and then back to active, the bug should not reproduce.

#### Recommendation
Upgrade when convenient.

### Minor UX fixes
- Added a log warning on scheduled background pruning problems, so that persistent pruning issues are more easily detected by Canton node operators.
- Invalid or duplicate node names in configuration files will now be reported on startup before exiting.

## Compatibility

The following Canton protocol versions are supported:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Canton protocol versions   | 3, 4, 5          |

Canton has been tested against the following versions of its dependencies:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Java Runtime               | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM Zulu11.66+15-CA (build 11.0.20+8-LTS, mixed mode)               |
| Postgres                   | Recommended: PostgreSQL 12.15 (Debian 12.15-1.pgdg120+1) – Also tested: PostgreSQL 11.16 (Debian 11.16-1.pgdg90+1), PostgreSQL 13.12 (Debian 13.12-1.pgdg120+1), PostgreSQL 14.8 (Debian 14.8-1.pgdg120+1), PostgreSQL 15.3 (Debian 15.3-1.pgdg120+1) |
| Oracle                     | 19.20.0             |

Note: We no longer test with Postgres 10 as its support has been [discontinued](https://www.postgresql.org/support/versioning/).

## What's Coming

We are currently working on
- zero downtime distributed smart contract upgrading (for 2.9)
- multi-domain general availability (per 3.0)
- performance improvements (for 3.0)
