# Release of Canton 2.9.4

Canton 2.9.4 has been released on August 23, 2024. You can download the Daml Open Source edition from the Daml Connect [Github Release Section](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/releases/tag/v2.9.4). The Enterprise edition is available on [Artifactory](https://digitalasset.jfrog.io/artifactory/canton-enterprise/canton-enterprise-2.9.4.zip).
Please also consult the [full documentation of this release](https://docs.daml.com/2.9.4/canton/about.html).

## Summary

- Protocol version 6 has had its status changed from "Beta" to "Unstable" due to a number of rare, but grave bugs in the new beta smart contract upgrading feature
- Minor improvements around logging and DAR upload validation

## What’s New

### Protocol Version 6 Marked as Unstable

#### Background

In Daml 2.9 we released a smart contract upgrading feature in Beta. Underlying the feature are a new protocol version (6), and a new Daml-LF version (1.16) that were also released in Beta status.

Beta status is intended to designate features that do not yet have full backwards compatibility guarantees, or may still have some limitations, but are ready to be supported for select customers under an "initial availability" arrangement.

A number of rare, but grave bugs in the new beta smart contract upgrading feature have been discovered during internal testing and will require breaking changes at the protocol level to fix. As a consequence data continuity will be broken in the sense that smart contracts created on protocol version 6 in 2.9.1-2.9.4 will not be readable in future versions.

**The 2.9 release as a whole is robust and functional. Only Beta features are affected.**

#### Specific Changes

To prevent any accidental corruption of prod, or even pre-prod systems, protocol version 6 has had its status changed from "Beta" to "Unstable" to clearly designate that it do not have appropriate guarantees.

#### Impact and Migration

Customers who are not using beta features or protocol version 6 can continue to use the 2.9 release. Customers using beta features are advised to move their testing of these features to the 2.10 release line.

To continue to use the beta features in 2.9.4 it will be necessary to enable support for unstable features.

See the user manual section on [how to enable unsupported features](https://docs.daml.com/canton/usermanual/FAQ.html#how-do-i-enable-unsupported-features) to find out how this is done.

### Minor Improvements
- Fix one issue preventing a participant to connect to an old domain even if they support a common protocol version.
- Startup errors due to TLS issues / misconfigurations are now correctly logged via the regular canton logging tooling instead of appearing only on stdout.
- Added extra validation to prevent malformed DARs from being uploaded

## Compatibility

The following Canton protocol and Ethereum sequencer contract versions are supported:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Canton protocol versions   | 5          |

Canton has been tested against the following versions of its dependencies:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Java Runtime               | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM Zulu11.72+19-CA (build 11.0.23+9-LTS, mixed mode)               |
| Postgres                   | Recommended: PostgreSQL 12.20 (Debian 12.20-1.pgdg120+1) – Also tested: PostgreSQL 11.16 (Debian 11.16-1.pgdg90+1), PostgreSQL 13.16 (Debian 13.16-1.pgdg120+1), PostgreSQL 14.13 (Debian 14.13-1.pgdg120+1), PostgreSQL 15.8 (Debian 15.8-1.pgdg120+1)           |
| Oracle                     | 19.20.0             |
