# Release of Canton 3.5.2

Canton 3.5.2 has been released on June 03, 2026.

## Summary

This is a maintenance release that fixes an out of memory issue during synchronizer reconnect, addresses security vulnerabilities in the Canton docker base image, as well as minor improvements.

## Minor Improvements

- Updated the Docker base image to 1.0.8 to address vulnerabilities in Busybox: CVE-2025-46394, CVE-2025-60876.
- Fix sequencer subscription closing errors `Timeout 9 seconds expired, but readers are still active in Task closing flushing direct-sequencer-subscription`.
- Handle decoding of `ContractId Void` in PQS
- Improve caching of contract key lookups

## Deprecations

### Removal of synchronous processing on the mediator
The synchronous processing mode on the mediator has been removed in favor of the asynchronous one
that offers better performance.

Config path `myMediator.config.asynchronous-processing` has been deprecated as it is on by default now.

## Bugfixes

### (26-002, Medium): OOM from high memory usage after disconnecting and reconnecting from/to a synchronizer

#### Issue Description
Because of the periodic time proof retrieval task (with interval minObservationDuration), the ConnectedSynchronizer
instance cannot be garbage collected right away after a disconnect/reconnect from the synchronizer.

This leads to higher memory consumption which can lead to OOMs.

#### Affected Deployments
Participant nodes

#### Affected Versions
All versions before 3.5.2

#### Impact
High memory consumption and potentially OOM of the participant

#### Symptom
The heap dump shows instances of the ConnectedSynchronizer from previously disconnected synchronizers.
The stack of calls refers to PeriodicAcknowledgements, TimeProofRequestsSubmitterImpl, SynchronizerTimeTracker and finally Clock

#### Workaround
Restart the participant.

#### Likeliness
Sometimes

#### Recommendation
Upgrade to 3.5.2

## Compatibility

The following Canton protocol versions are supported:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Canton protocol versions   | 34, 35          |

Canton has been tested against the following versions of its dependencies:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Java Runtime               | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM (build 21.0.12+2-nixos, mixed mode, sharing)               |
| Postgres                   | Recommended: PostgreSQL 17.10 (Debian 17.10-1.pgdg13+1) – Also tested: PostgreSQL 14.23 (Debian 14.23-1.pgdg13+1), PostgreSQL 15.18 (Debian 15.18-1.pgdg13+1), PostgreSQL 16.14 (Debian 16.14-1.pgdg13+1)           |
