# Release of Canton 3.5.9

Canton 3.5.9 has been released on July 16, 2026.

## Summary

This is a maintenance release that brings few minor improvements.

## What’s New

### Minor Improvements
- Improved and relaxed DB locking-scheme to avoid colliding with pg_dump execution. Also introduced better visibility for lock contention by emitting INDEX_DB_LOCK_TIMEOUT_ERROR in ERROR logs.
- Switch from TRUNCATE queries to VACUUM + opportunistic REINDEX DB queries. This approach is using lower level DB locks less likely to collide with external processes.
- Increase default network timeout for Indexer Database calls from 20 seconds to 40 seconds (`canton.participants.<participant_name>.parameters.ledger-api-server-parameters.indexer.postgres-data-source.network-timeout`) to provide more tolerance for indexing big transactions.
- Report indexer as unhealthy after crash until at least one uncommitted update from before crash was processed or there are no uncommitted updates from before the crash. This puts a participant in unhealthy status if indexer enters crash loop due to problematic update in the queue.
- An internal change is introduced which grants `ReadAsAnyParty` permissions to the traffic enforcement service. This removes the need to use non-standard config options to run local traffic enforcement with auth enabled:
  ```
  canton.participants.<participant_name>.ledger-api.admin-token-config.act-as-any-party-claim=true
  canton.participants.parameters.non-standard-config=true
  ```
- The participant admin party is now exempt from the traffic enforcement balance check during submission.

## Compatibility

The following Canton protocol versions are supported:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Canton protocol versions   | 34, 35          |

Canton has been tested against the following versions of its dependencies:

| Dependency                 | Version                    |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| Java Runtime               | OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM (build 21.0.12+2-nixos, mixed mode, sharing)               |
| Postgres                   | Recommended: PostgreSQL 17.10 (Debian 17.10-1.pgdg13+1) – Also tested: PostgreSQL 14.23 (Debian 14.23-1.pgdg13+1), PostgreSQL 15.18 (Debian 15.18-1.pgdg13+1), PostgreSQL 16.14 (Debian 16.14-1.pgdg13+1)           |
